Indiana University 



Purdue University 



Fort Wayne 



&gt; ■ ^ ^ ^ Wednesday, January 25, 2006 

1 he Communicator 



INSIDE: 



i Sex Offenders 

Indiana now offers 
public database on 
15,000 plus offenders 
PAGEA4 



■ United Basketball Conference 

IPFW basketball programs 

enter an alliance 

with Independents PAGEA10 




| Art Exhibit 



v. ipfwcommunicator.org 



10 Pages, 1 Section, Free 



EE2aEE23 



Pelzeiis lecture 
fails in tone 



Lessons, inspiration of 'If left outside 



\A\mmviin.m 



1 GtBT Student Audio Conference 



On lanuary 17 renowned author Dave 
l'el/er visited the IPFW campus. 

Pclzer, international best selling 
audior of four books: A Child Called "It," 
The Lost Boy, A Man Named Dave, and 
Help Yourself, was welcomed here in 
Fort Wayne. 

According to student body vice 
president Nate Hubley, an estimated 400 
plus people came out that night. 

The reason many of those people 
chose to come listen to Mr. Pelzer speak 
is because they were truly inspired by 
his life .ind his books. 

Pelzer has gone through so much in 
his lifetime, especially enduring such 
tormenting abuse as a child. 

The presentation started promptly at 
7:30 p.m. in the Walb Ballroom. 

On this note, many of you have heard 
the quote that goes something like "first 
impressions are everything and they 



to lead a better life, motivate the young 
listeners as well as the old; instead they 
were handed a big platter of jokes. 

someone stand up on a stage and tell 
political jokes, no doubt they would 
watch Conan O'Brien. 

Hubley stated (hat lie agrees JYI/et 
did joke around quite a bit. but his 
message did get through and that 
he gears his speeches based on the 
audience, therefore maybe Pelzer felt 
as if he had to joke around to keep the 
younger audience member's attention 

Here is the fact: no matter what age 
you read his books at, whether you weie 
12 or 18 or 35, you were in an utter state 




t'" ipfwcommunitator.org 



AUTHOR: Dave Pelzer lecturing in Walb Ballroom to a crowd of ap- 
proximately 400 sponsored in part by IPSGA. 



Having read his books means diat 
you came to listen to him talk because of 
his life experiences, so the whole joking 
around for two hours while we're paying 
you $7,000 plus travel fees and lodging 
:• ally doesn't cut it. 

&gt;, Pelzer really is a 



speech here at IPFW, reading his books 
will certainly do the trick. 

IPFW is doing an excellent job of 
bringing well known people to campus 
and also that the students show great 



His books truly are remarkable an 
:n if you pulled nothing away from h 



Excellence, Honors Program Group, and 
the Psychology Club lor sponsoring this 
as well as IPSGA for funding. 




By Andrew C. Hoover 



IPFW is a place of troubled waters. It is a pi: 
pirates run rampant and roughshod 
pirates plunder treasure from e-slups and steal media 
a whim. IPFW clearly has pirates, and if the 
supports the macro, ii mil ul 10 people around 
piratL- something evcr\ day. Maybe you partaki 
of the e-plunder regularly. 

Despite the copyright infringement 
lawsuits, dubious legality of the 
is theft), and the rising difficulty in sharing 
files, college students still have no qualms 
" l pursuing 



Hie first of a three 
part series on cam- 
pus e-piracy 



Recently, a large group of college students got togethei 
watch a hit TV show together 1 1 icy did not hav 




and ill. n might tn-lp gloss 



addiction, limited releases, rarity and 

pirate plunders the 
others it is just to show 

something to the companies th.it spend millions 
trying to protect their media, " 



News Briefs 

IPFW to host 

7th annual Windsong 



The 7"' Annual Windsong 
Film Festival will be held at 
IPFW this year. 

The Independent and 
College Filmmaker Festival 
will be in March, during 
Spring Break, with evening 
viewings and all day Saturday 
and Sunday showings of the 

The deadline for student 

submissiuospassedon January 



it until March 20. 

The Independent and 

College Filmmaker Festival 



information on 
the film festival, including 
a schedule of showings, 
frequently check www. 
wlndwsongplcure8.com or e- 
mail wlndBong71@coincH8t. 



Slots still open for 
IPFWStatehouse trip 



Wednesday, Feb. 1 from 


no money: 




A motor coach ride to and 


Annual IPFW Day at the 


from Indianapolis. A how- 


Statehouse will go petition 


to lobby lesson from a state 


the 18 northeastern Indiana 


lobbyist. Tour of the Indiana 


legislators to increase IPFW's 


Statehouse. Lunch with the 18 


share of the Resident FTE, 


Northeast Indiana legislators. 


a state appropriation. The 


The appropriation under 


trip to Indianapolis is free to 


dispute is part of the Indianas 


students, alumni and faculty 


Slate Appropriations to 


and includes, for absolutely 


► STATEHOUSE: Page A3 



Community Focus 



IPFW Geoscience maintains hightech weather lab 



Meteorology gear tracks 
chaotic Fort Wayne 
weather 



IPFW has its very own weather 
station. Where, you ask? You walk past 
it everyday and never even realize it. 



top of the left door of the Science 
Building. 

After the repeater receives the 
information it then transmits it to die 
weather console. 

The weather console is located 
upstairs in the Science Building, in the 



Something that affects a perso 
every day is the weather. 

Perhaps the people living here i 



of that fact. 

One day we could be having a ca 
sunny day and then wake up the n 
morning with snow. 

Because of this lluctu ig neat 

people often check the TV, 
newspaper or an online source to 
the day's weather. 



showing the charts and graphs and a 
meteorologist standing there. 

A weather station is actually a little 
type of box full of sensors. 

The IPFW weather station is located 
on the top of the light pole outside 

e Science Building, if you are facing 



thcticusciences Department, showing 
the information that has been received 
in charts and graphs. 



towards Kettler. 

That black sensor bt 
all the weather informati 
such as temperature, humidity and 
barometric pressure, to a repeater. 

The repeater is located right on 



i the weather console is because the 
structure of the Science Building does 
not allow the information to transmit 
directly, 
sends Dr. Argast founded the I I'lW 



part of the Geoscienccs I tcpariment. 
which is located on the second floor of 
the Science Building. 

The Communicator got a chance to 
speak with Professor Tennis about this 
organization. 

He says, "I wish more people knew, 
but it's been on the web for a while. I 
do like working on it though because 
it's pretty interesting." 

Everyone can access the information 
being put out by IPFW on http://geo. 
iptu.edu/geoweather/. 



weather station, what happens 
when it breaks down (sec link on the 
information page dated Apr. 4, 2003), 
and lots of details about today's and 



pstii 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



Newsroom: (260) 481-6584 
Fax:(260)481-6045 
Advertising Dept.: (260) 481-6583 
E-mail: contact@ipfwcommunlcalor.org 



For all you science majors out there 
or even if you're just interested in the 
weather, you may be wondering, 'How 
can 1 get involved?' 



All of the information is received 
electronically and then transported to 
a computer that turns it into charts. 

However, there is a way you can take 
an active role in the weather station. 

According to Professor Tennis, if 
you keep a log of the weather and the 



The forecast is not predicted on the 

website, just all of the information is. 

► WEATHER: Page A2 



Arts &amp; Entertainment... 



! ;'.v.i-.-..v 



^33J 



The Communicator 

A publication ot IndUru-Purdu* SiurJtnt Hrvnptptn. Inc. 

BMW 



IPFW hosts multi-campus discussion 



Brianna BeHord 

Editor-in-Chief 

bb»lf orcfO ipfwco mmunlcator.org 

Jamie Miller 
Managing Editor 

lmBer4iprwcommuntca1or.org 

Una Mabbitt 

Advertising Manager 

Chad Buttertaugh 

Copy Editor 

cbutterba ug hOlpfwcomm u nl c 
ator.org 

Amy Dunnuck 

Copy Editor 

adunnuohnpTwconiniunlcatOMirg 

Eugene Harding 

Photo Editor 

g ha rdfn g Olptwco mmu n I c a 1 o r. 

Nick West 

Sports Editor 

nwrcstOiphvcommunlcator.om 

Dan Vance 

A&amp;E Editor 

dvanc0OlpfWC.om1llunlCator.oru 



Newsroom / Editor 

(260)481-6584 

cmitortOlplwconin.urWcjtof.oi 



Publisher 

(260)481-6585 



Shiavo-inspired forum discusses Right to Die issues 



By David Gray 

dgrayOipfwcor 



Less than a year after Terri Schiavo's 
tlroversia] death, the circumstances 
rounding her final months and years 



lot It 



EMSM1 



Andrew C. Hoover 

News Editor 

arxtc^eretpfwconvnunrcetor.ofg 



March 31, 2005, had been cons 
be in a persistent vegetative state 
than VI years before her death. 

After years of court battles with her 
parents. Michael Schiavo, her husband and 
guardian, finally gained legal approval to 
remove her feeding tube. 

Although he won the legal battle, 
Michael Schiavo's decision is still being 
discussed and judged in the court of public 

Last Thursday afternoon in the Walb 
Student Union, a panel of four faculty 
members from three area universities 
participated in "This Sickness is Unto Death: 
A Discussion of End of Life Decisions" 
hosted by the IPFW University Religious 

The panel members included William 
Bruening, a professor in the IPFW 
Department of Philosophy; Stephen Ziegler, 
a visiting assistant professor in the IPFW 
Department of Public and Environmental 
Affairs; lames Spiegel, a professor of 
philosophy at Taylor University; and David 
Fleischacher, an assistant professor of 
philosophy and theology at the University 



inwards the legality of the 

The most important questions 
surrounding the issue to them included who 
is the most appropriate guardian to decide, 
how involved should the government be, 
and, depending on the answers to the first 
two questions, was the decision made with 



become a burden on a guardian. 

Bruening, at times on the defensive, said 
that it is misleading to say Terri died from 
starvation and dehydration. 

Her life had essentially ended years 
before that point. 

Spiegel said the case boiled down to 
which moral virtue trumped which, and 
he claimed that the sanctity of life trumps 
personal autonomy in this instance. 

In response, Bruening said he was 
concerned with the idea that if you agreed 
with the Schiavo case, then you don't 
believe in the sanctity of life. 

Perhaps Ziegler summed the whole 
io up best when he : 



litigated in thee 



tof 



personal autonomy and the family's legal 
right to choose, Spiegel and Fleishacher 
stressed the importance of the sanctity of 
life. 

They both considered this to be a case of 
involuntary euthanasia which they thought 
could be deemed murder. 

Fleishacher explained that the U.S. 
has generally been very restrictive to the 
question of when it's acceptable to end 
another's life, allowing only self-defense, 
jusi war and the death penalty. 

Now.hesays.societyismakingexceptions 



law, not the court of public opinion." 
Tlie whole problem might have been 

avoided, according to Spiegel, if only Terri 

Sihiavo had filed a living will. 

He suggested that everyone fill one 

Bruening did add that e 
do have limitations but ad 



life has decreased or the individual has 



the forecast 
information the IPFW Weather The info 

station receives, they would website is i 

consider allowing that student 10 minutes, 

to put it on their website. be working 

A student could also get the information, 
information and turn it into If you're 



:ion on the second floor of the Science 

ted every 6- Building to check out the 

you would computers and charts, 
h very new Not only is this weather 



. t tillage rid. mi Saturday, February 



i could prevent it from 



Department. 

They have a lot of displays 
to show students; all it takes 
is for a walk around on the 



Campus 


IPFW 


Calendj 


\T 




for Jit. 26-Fmb. 1, 2006 


26 Student Organization 


every Tuesday atnoon;bringa 


Leadership Development 


sack lunch. An opportunity to 


(S.O.L.D.): WU 114-116, noon. 


meet informally with the express 


For information, call 16283. 


purpose of speaking Spanish, For 




information, call l6689or e-mail 


27 National Student Eichange 


conforbn@ipfw.edu. 


Information Seuloni KT098, 




1 ! i . i . i Application deadline is 


National Student Exchange 


Feb. 24, 2006. For information, 


Information Session: KT 098, 


call 16593 ore-mall 


noon-l p.m Application deadline 


lwfBi@ipfw.edu. 


is Feb. 24, 2006. For information. 




calll6S9Sore-mail 


28 Athletic Event! Women's 


l»f&amp;@ipfw.edu. 


Basketball vs. Longwood 




University, OC, 1 p.m. For 


1 10th Annual Statehouse Day: 


information, call 16643. 


8 a.nv-4 p.m. For information or 




reservations, call 1 6807. 


29 Athletic Event: Women's Tennis 




vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 


SrudentOrgantzadon 


1 p.m.; vs. Dayton, 5 p.m. Pine 


Presidents' Roundtable: noon- 


Ridge Racquet Club. For 


1 :30 p.m. For information, call 


information, call 16643. 


I6S88. 


30 Pblloiopby Club: KT 246. 


Write Away on Wednesday 


noon-1 p.m. For information, call 


Workshop: "Beating the Blank 


16366. 


Screen Blues: How to Start 




Writing a Paper When You're 


Eating Disorder Support 


Not Sure How to Begin," 


Group: WU234,6:3O-8:30p.m. 


KT 022, noon-1 p.m. For 


For information, call 16647 or 


information, call 1 5740. 


e-mail dllapau@lpfw.edu. 




31 SpanlshTable: Venaconversar 




ycomerconnosotrosOookfor 




the table with the Spanish flag) 




TMt ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 




AMBASSADONS 



Let your leadership skills shine as an Ambassadon—an IPFW 

representative on campus and in the community. 

This premier program challenges students to excel 

both professionally and personally through 

exposure at bigh-ptx&gt;file university events. 




My Student Loan Makes Me Eat Dog Food. Com 



^^3 



Website exposes 'radical' professors 



y3§§i 



By Mellinda Dudley 



(U-WIRE) LOS ANGELES - A Web site 
purporting to expose "UCLA's radical professors" 
and offering students cash payouts, in return for 
information about their classes was thrust into 
the national spotlight Wednesday after a barrage 
of media coverage. 

The site, Liclapmfs.com, was launched jusl lasi 
month by the Bruin Alumni Association, a non- 
profit organization unrelated to the University 
of California- 1 os Angeles Alumni Association. 
The site was started by alumnus Andrew lones 
with the goal of publicizing and reforming 
the "exploding crisis r&gt;] political radicalism 
on campus," according to the Bruin Alumni 
Association Website. 

lones, a former Daily Bruin Viewpoint 
columnist and chair of Bruin Republicans, calls 
"indneirinationist professors" the organization's 



among the most radical at UCLV lie ranked cadi 
professor with a scale of "power fists" •- five fists 
being the most radical. 

The profiles on the site are written in politically 
charged language, in some cases very extensive, 
even offering commentary on the professor's 
family and i nllcgc education. 

In some of the profiles, lories questions the 
professor's rcsear. h and ic.u King qualifications. 

The site offers students as much as $100 in 
return for "information about abusive, one-sided 
or off-topic classroom behavior" by professors, 
in the form of detailed das-, notes with audience 
reactions and lecture recordings. 

However, doing so is against university 
policies designed to protect protestors' cop\ right 
over their course materials, ,u i ording to Patricia 
lasper. legal counsel for UCLA. 

"I'm personally concerned when students may 
lie imwutmgk encouraged n&gt; violate university 
policies that could write them into student 
conduct code violations," said Jasper. 



the Bruin 
and that 



news in the public interest, lones said. 

UCLA Academic Suiaic chair Adrienne Lavine 
said. "Faculty are generally con itoriablewiihwh.it 



to "spy" on their professors. 

Sawyer is criticized on the sire for listing' black 
political thought" and "critical race theory" 
among his Incuses within political science. 

"The site itself politicizes the classroom," 
Sawyer said 'The site itsdt is doing exactly what 
it's accusing the professors of doing." 

Sawyer also said the Web site takes what is 
said in class out of context, and true intended 
i always be verified just hy 



the so-called "dirty ill" 



While she has heard concerns from a number 
of faculty, including some listed on the site, 
neither she nor Jasper have heard of any (acuity 
contemplating suing Jones for libel. 

lasper did speculate iliat professors "could go 
after the Bruin Alumni Association lor cnpyrighi 
infringement if in fact they arc obtaining and 
disseminating copyrighted material." 

The Bruin Alumni Association may also be- 
at risk for using the name "UCLA" in Internet 
addresses. 

"The university does not own the trademark 
'Bruin,' but we do own' U( I A' and we do vigilantly 
monitor and protect our trademark," lasper said 

The university is not contemplating legal 
this time, but "we're keeping our options 



bias, and what they are doing, which 

aitacking people whose views differ from theirs." 
said Innathan Zasloff, a law professor whose 
campaign contributions are listed on the Web 



implications disquieting. 

"They're entitled to say anything they want 
about me or anyone else on the list because that's 
what ii means to lie able to express iheii point of 
view. Hui this seems to be a little more politically 
orchestrated." Zasloff said. 

He said the Bruin Alumni Association has 
pretty heavy hitlers" on its advisory 



profiled ■- ai length and in great detail -- oi 
the Web siie said ihe situation has a number o 
negative implications on profes 



While Karen Brodkin, a professor of 

anthropology who is profiled on the site, 
dismissed the Web site as "a pretty pathetic 
attempt to smear people." she also said that she 



Political science Professor 
saho profiled, shared si 

: lie Wdi sin- is an .men i pi in m i miniate professors 
t they say and leach 



an acailcniK hill of rights lo the state legisl. 
which would maildale that students he exposed 
to a variety ol viewpoints, including poliiii_.il, and 
that students cannot be discriminated against tor 

Brodkin, who is called a "radical women's 
studies lesbian feminist' on the Web site, also 
said lones has "connections" with conservative 
legislators and thai (he Well she may be tied into 
a number of right-wing hills in the legislature 
promoting censorship. 

Jones said the Bruin Alumni Association 
eports of abusive behaviors by 
professors and would spend extra 
time looking into tliein, but added that such 
professors are unlikely to ail inappropriately. 



News Briefs 



SPSA hosts multi-faith event 

the II'RV SPSA (Spirttttal and Pagan Student 
Alliance] will lie hosting ,, gathering ol Faiths 
and Students on Wednesday the .':Y" ai 7.3l&gt;pm in 
Kettler Hall Room t.-Ui. I he goal ol the meeting 
is to spread information about customs, ethics 
and holidays of the Pagan faith and any other 
laith that has representation at the meeting. 

The Campus Crusade for Christ was invited 
to lake pan in the meeting, along with other 
student faith organizations here on campus. 
I he goal of the meeting is the same as the broad- 
reaching goal ol the SPSA, to educate people 
about the various faiths of the World. 

The meeting will he during the normal lime 
for the SPSA (Wednesday al 7: Ulpml hut will not 
instead this special event meeting 



Maximize first year experience 

On Friday, January 27. IPFW, together with 
Oil I and First Year I xperience. will be presenting 
"The College Lxperience: Ihe Difference You 
Make" from 9am lo 1:30pm in the Wall) Union 
Ballroom. 

This special event will feature Harvard 
University nroiessor Hu hard I I ighl, the author 
ol Making the Most ol College. .Students Speak 
their Minds Ibis free even! is tor IPFW students, 
high school students and friends to educate 
them how lo make ihe most of iheir First year 
in college. For more information on this special 
event, calUC.0-4.81-6077. 



Coliseum ranked in top 100 

In non-campus news, Pollstar Magazine 

tanked Ihe \llen( oinuy War Memorial Coliseum. 
home of the IPFW Men's Basketball Team, as 
the 97th Best Venue in the World; a magazine 
dedicated lo concerts and arenas. Ibis puts Ihe 
Coliseum on a prestigious list including Madison 
Square Carden and the Wachovia Center in 
Philadelphia. Verizon Wireless Music Center 
and Conseco Fieldlmusc in Indianapolis had no 
comment on their rankings when asked. 

Coliseum dencfal Manager Handy Brown M 



Vatican denies 
Intelligent Design 



Intelligent Design is not a science, and 
should not be taught in school. 

According to the L'Osservatore 
Romano reporter Fiorenzo Facchini, 
Pope Benedict XVI and the Vatican have 
spoken out on the issue hottly debated 
here in America, which has recently 
spread to European schools. 

"Intelligent design does not belong 
to science and there is no justification 
for the pretext that it be taught as a 
sc lent i tit i henry alongside the Darwinian 
explanation," the L'Osservatore quoted. direction," it said. 



Intelligent Design seeks to use miracles 
to explain gaps in scientific knowledge. 
This is not, according to the Vatican, 
the purpose of Science. In the same 
breath, the Vain, an added that ~ 
is not without God and that ii 
remembered that something 
whole process. 



that does not explain how those e 
transpired. 

The Vatican states that the explin 



evolution theories. 

"God's project of creation can 

be carried out through secondary 

causes in the natural course of events. 

without having to think of miraculous 

that point in this or that 



The Vatican v 



3 explain that 



The popularity of TiVo i 
their lives, not vice-versa, t 
DVD. made in the comfort o 
watched the home-made se 
spending a dime. 



lately shows that people 



o TiVo. They put a burnt 
o the Xbox Video Game System and 

;rciaJs, without pause, and without 



Only one student took ihe I -to find the neucsi episodes ul I he show, download 

(hem using a liii torrent client, and then burn ihe show to a DVI ) using software that 
student pirated from another Bit Torrent. The Xbox belonged 



friends togethei 

Having a unique chance 

be presenting a three-part s 
group of anonymous pirates i 



really explore this society, I he ( ommunicator will 
.■s that details ihe lull actions and ramifications ol a 
i they go about their business plundering what they 
.. The students observed range from the casual to the intense as they pirate the 
full range of media; hit movies, CDs, computer software, books, comics and even 
handheld videogames like popular Nintendo DS and Sony PsP titles. 

Part Two will cover things (rum the pirates siandpoint while Part :i will include 



Presidents' salaries raise questions 



By Daniella Zalcman 

Columbia Daily Spectator 



from all walks of hfe. NBA stars, 

corporate CEOs, anil ■ emporarv 

music icons pull in ujillions of dollars 
each year. 

sharp contract, professionals 



the best possible leadership thai 
our society can produce." he said. 
"While the compensation levels of 
some presidents appear very high in 
the abstract, as one measures these 
against. their levels ol responsibilities 
and compensation for similar 
posii inns in other hekls such as health 
Tgtiirand the private sector, they hej 



Even though hiring and retaining 
college executives has become 
increasingly competitive in recent 
years, not everyone believes there is 
adequate justification for the rising 
salaries. 

The American Association of 
University Professors contends that 
prcsii'iiiial incomes shouldj 




salaries Hut I olumbia Uni 
President lee Bollinger now earns 
S6;iH,2fiO annually, proving [hat old 
perceptions may soon be out of date. 
Some have argued that these 
earnings are unnecessarily inllated. 
Others have said that the job 
description lot university presidents 
has broadened greatly in the past 
decade, and that they should be 
compensated for taking on more 
and managing institutions that often 
resemble for-profit organizations. 



ity presidents are selected 

and c pens, Med," said presidential 

contract lawyer Raymond Cotton in a 
live forum hosted b\ lliet hronicleof 
l-hghei I ducalion. 

"The media tends, to focus on the 
numbers, which tell only part of the 
siory. Universities need and deserve 



In 1996, only one president of a 
SfiUlUHiO ttnnually. last year, exactly 



SI million c 

President Donald Ross of Lynn 

I Iniversity in Boca Raton. Fla. tops the 
:.brirtginginatotalofS5,042.31S 



uisalarv and benefits. i 
ol the million-dollar dub include ihe 
presidents of Wilmington College 
(SI, 370,973), Vanderbilt (51,326,786). 
Boston University ($1,253,352), and 
Middlebury ($1,213,141). 

the University of 
n Rodin was the 

the top 10 list of 

well-paid presidents of private 
Rodin earned $986,915 
in salary and annual compensation 
during the JuO&lt;! tis, al year, compared 
to Yale President Richard Levin's 
5715,212 and Harvard President 
Lawrence Summers' 5554,098. 



a further indication that 
corporate organizational hierarchy is 
emerging in colleges and universities, 
in potential conflict with the mission 
of institutions of higher education lo 
operate for the benefit of society as a 
whole." 

Even at Columbia, the salary 
increases are apparent. In 2003, 
President Bollinger earned $611,111, 
$27,000 less than he earns today. 

Roger Bowcn, General Secreiaryof 
the &lt;\AUP warned lhal "high pay may 
reflect a presumption thai presidential 
leadership is more important than 
education itself.'' 

"The time has arrived to protect the 
academy from sinking mote deeply 
into the ethically marshy corporate- 
like world," Bowcn said. "We can 



leant more about, 
:, and IPFVY is ranked 13 o 
that receive this funding. To reserve your seat, |ust do one of the following: Sign 

IPFW only receives S4.329 per Resident FTE while upinWalb IJ=.or email, dmum*' ipfv..edu wilbyouri 
places like Purdue West 1 ' 
Ml ngton [lulls in Sit.- 



e Slu.tiiH and IU phone n 
; University receive 



Professor to present findings on monogamous fruit flies 



Insect labeled a model 
organism whose behavior 
applies to larger aspects 
oflife 

By Katherine Lu 



animal kingdom rages on. 

On Wednesday, the entomology department 
will be sponsoring a seminar on forced 

nioiiog.uin in Iruii Mies Ihe speaker, assistant 
professor Rreii Holland from California Male 
University Sacramento, has been studying the 
costs of sexual conllici in Iruit Hies, lie learned 
that monogamous Iru it Hies became more til than 
l-monogamous fruit flies, : 



resulting in stronger offspring. 

Holland also a t tended University oft. alilornia- 
Davls as an undergraduate. He said biology 
laiiglu him tin- inosi about animal and human 
behavior. 

"What drew me to biolog\ was that it had a big 
picture view ol human life As an iindergr.idii.iie, 
I had taken i lasses in psychology, social sciences, 
hut 1 realized lhai the cou tse which informed me 
the inosi abotu human behavior was zoology," 
he said. "II you want to understand behavior you 
should understand natural selection." 

The seminar is pan of a yearlong seminar 

series sponsored h&gt; the cut &gt;log\ dep.iruneni 

and during winter quarter, graduate students 
have the opportunity' to nominate and host 
various speakers. Nicole Mans, a graduate 

student st nihil ig ci &gt;log\ and epide ilur\ 

said a simplihcation tjl Holland's study is like a 

'•Sexual conflict is a theory that slates that males 



competing with each oilier, " she said, "jllollandl 
is studying that in fruit Hies, which is interesiing 
because it is like the biology version of battle of 
sexes from an evolutionary perspective." 

The study divided fruit (lies into two groups; 
monogamous and non-monogamous. During 
courtship in huii Hies, ihe males often harmed 
the females with seminal fluid, but after 40 
monogamous generations. Holland learned thai 
females were hurt less by the fluid. 

Jennifer Tsuruda. a graduate student 



,lheha. 






! fly c 



i be t 



a lab and the genome is known." 

enforced-monogamy reveals sexu 



sexually antagonistic during courtship, often 
hurting each other during this process. 

The seminat, including others this quarter, 
will be held in 122 Briggs from noon to 1 p.m. 
Pizza, snacks and an oppnrtunii\ to mingle v.iih 
the speaker will also be available following the 

Tsuruda added that although some seminars 

of the entomology depariiueni might be geared 
low, nil those with a science background, there 
will also be seminars on broader topics, such as 
animal personalities and West Nile virus. 

"We have a great collection of talks from 
speakers, ranging from UC Davis graduate 
students and tacult\ in other e\i uing researchers 

said. "It's a great opportunity to learn about 



was devoted to th 


. sexual eonflic.taween sexes, and females h»ve djfjpm,, ,n,e,es,s and so are melan„ K as,er' is Ihe U,,n namefor^. common 


O 


PLEASE RECYCLEI*THIS NEWSPAPER 



TheGimmunkaimh 



Podium 



Wednesdjy.JanuafyZS.2006 



Letter to the Editor 



Carroll High 
School expulsion 
over the top 



A Carroll High School student was 

recently expelled for writing a ten page 
"'satire" thai was extremely critical of the 
Carrol! High School administration. 

The student in question lias no 
record of disciplinary problems and was 
.1 si rnnt" student academically at 



i first-time offender of 
I hope that the school hoard listened 



I am extremely disturbed by a quote 
that was printed in a Journal Gazette 
ankle written by Kelly Soderlund 
entitled, "Carroll student expelled for 



leaders, and speech t( 

Outside of school, the student 
founded The Allen County Teenage 
Republicans. 

There are many options that a school 



has misbehaved in so 
most extreme isexpulsi 



student 
e fashion; the 

i for the school 



Students whof 

dI other students 

discipline problem-" -"hi mid I" 1 rein 
from school; however, this student 
mil fit these criteria. 
I find it impossible 



who lold her thai according to the NAGS 
legal council, "first Amendment rights 
are not applicable when the violations 
are committed on school computers." 

I am not a lawyer; however, I have 

read the Constitution and 1 think that 

I have a pretty clear understanding of 

both what it specifically states and what 

threat to the safety our Founding Fathers intended. 

It states "Congress shall make no 
law respecting an establishment of 
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise 
thereof; or abridging the freedom of 
speech, or of the press; or the right 
of the people peaceably to assemble. 






for 



There 

discipline 

offensive 

computet 

This i: 



ire a lot of methods the 
ition could have used to 
the student for writing an 
document on the school 

more than a free speech 



considerate behavior from students. 

So, depending on how insulting or 
unfair the criticisms were, I suggest that 
the student be given a written warning, 
and the student's parents be required 



thee 



) the school and be apprised I 



glossary.htmlWUL.Dlil SS&gt;; redress of 
grievances." 

Per NACSproi.edu res, Superintendent 
Yager still has to approve this expulsion; 
hopefully, he will over-ride it and 
investigate why this expulsion occurred 
in the first place. 

If Superintendent Yager approves the 
expulsion, then the School Board will 
get the same opportunity to review the 

One of the strengths of this great 
nation is the freedom of the press and 
speech. 

I am a proud military veteran 
extremely concerned about the constant 
nofoi 



who he offended. 

This would be more than s 
punishment lor a first offense, 

Instead, the student can no longer 
attend Carroll High School and cannot 
be involved with the student activities 
that he participated in. 

I attended the School Board Meeting 
on January 16th and listened to Carroll 
High School student Sam Wysong's 



My children will be attending NAC'S 
and I will do everything I possibly can to 
ensure that they attend a strong school 
system that respects the Constitution. 



Mike Sylvester 

Accounting Major 




New web site relief to public 



Staff Edit orial 

On Monday, the Indiana 
Sheriffs' Sex Offender Registry- 
went online. This website 
(www.indianasheriffs.org) 
provides maps to the public 
that shows exactly where sex 
offenders live, work, or even 
go to school, and their photo. 

But that isn't all the good 
things that the new site has. 

The website shows 
information for three 
combined databases of 
offenders. It can zoom in 
to half a mile from a given 
address. Or you can search by 
zip code, town, or an offender's 



Within a three-mile radius 
from the address of the IPFW 
Student Housing, there are 
37 registered sex offenders. 
Within a five-mile radius, 
there are 163, that we could 
pass by on any given day. 

Another important detail 
is that you can choose to 
show where local schools or 
daycare centers are located on 
the map. What a blessing. 

Finally, a way to help 
protect your children. You 
can warn your children and 
hopefully you'll keep a better 
eye on them. 

There are so many offenders 



walking on the street and 
we at least have the right to 
be warned of where they are 
living. Starting in April, you 
will be able to sign up for an 
email update that will warn 
you if an offender moves into 
your neighborhood. 

This website is a great way 
to let Hoosiers know who their 
neighbors are. According to 
the website, "harassment, 
stalking, or threats may violate 
Indiana law." So, don't get 
any extreme ideas, just use 
this site for the benefits that 



Old-fashioned ways lead to fewer dates 



In Other Words 



1 believe that women should allow rr 
care of them I also believe that women should 
probably do most of the household chores and 
raise babies In be perfectly honest I would be 
liappv in life raising children while my husband 
worked (so long as I could do my volunteer 
work and pursue my photography when my 
responsibilities were taken care of] This isn't to 
say that 1 feel I will ever find a guy who thinks ! 
shouldn't work. Plus, I love working. I have two 
jobs and work for the news paper. 

I've worked sincel was 15. And, although thai 
all sounds a hit sexist; it's just bow I feel. I can 
work and raise a family one day without having 
to live those old ideals of the woman belonging 
in the kitchen, barefoot .mil pregnant. But I don't 
find anything wrong with them, either. 1 know 
that I am as self- sufficient and independent as 
the next 21" century college woman. 

1 just like to dream of a time where I didn't 
have to worry about bills and who was going 
to pay off my (and my future children's: , ollege 
loans. Some women will look at me funny 
from now on but it's who I am. I am quite old- 
fashioned. If I had to elaborate on that one, I'd 
also say that 1 do what I feel is safe. 

I'll eat at the samecouple of r 
I know what is 'safe' to eat (what 
e types of mov 



stray from my historical romance novels lor mv 
literary satisfaction. 

I lead a very safe and old-fashioned life. 
And. feeling sale m college while at Ball State I 
would visit Wal-Mari ,u least twice a week. I'm 
not sure how it started but since moving back 
to Huntington I've found myself there just as 



I found myself there on a Friday wh 
should have heen ..Lit celebrating my friend's 24'" longer get: 
birthday. Becoming obnoxiously drunk while 
sum lied b\ .i hundred people just isn't my 

Instead I w.is walking around U. illy World with 
.mother Iriend mlm was still Irving to get me 
to at least go ool and haw one drink! 1 browsing 
through ilie lingerie'' section. I'm not as old- 
laslnoned when it comes to my undergarments 



how insanely crazy it is lor a 23-year-old to find 
a guy to date in Fort Wayne, let alone at IPFW. 
I'm at that weird college age where I should have 
graduated by now (don't ever transfer... ever). 

Those in my classes are either two to three 
years younger than my sell nr older and i inning for days, 
to college in their late 20s and early 30s. Which 
leaves me with the choice of a guy who will 






ask her out- right? HA! Since being at IPFW I've 

realized i hat younger guys will ask a girl out- but 

it's not a date. It's going to an athletic event 

followed by some party at an apartment. The 

older guys will rarelyaskagirlout... they will flin 

reeks, even months to get their point 

make that move. I really hate 

red? Not really sure but It's the 

ome up with. Yes, I know I'm a 



hairline a 

They both come with their o 
just finding one wi 



. still don't. I talked 



downs.. 

beenatlPFWfora. 

ill iiioi, ships and been ( 



w. I've had two normal 
i countless first dates... 
part lead to no second 



Thev 



, I do b 



.' websites lor r: 



, I read the 
and I rarely 



laughed at the Sponge Bob teddy I 
" 1 had a right to judge those who 

might purchase this piece of unique erotic 
clothing I currently have no beau to wear it for 
and what right do I have to itidge a girl who does 
have a guv to model her fun-loving outfit? 

As I stood next hi a sign wiih a great lug smilev 
face and falling numbers I made a huge mistake- 
when 1 thought ool loud. I wish someone would 
set me up on a blind date. 

With those words uiiered I've c ome to te.ili/e 



including the 

I have nothing against NASI All but I don't 
care if a particular dri vers favorite meal is a prime 
rib wiih garlic-mashed potatoes and a coke with 
no ice. Not a turn on to know that much... in 
lact. it's quite stalkerish and I'm personally not 
looking for a stalker. 

I'm an old fasbionedg.il and rel use to continue 
to date a guy if I know I have no interest in him 
as a friend or more. (In other words, I'm highly 
opposed io friends with benefits...) 

Along those old-fashioned set of rules comes 
the 'I will never ask a guy out.' In my mind a 
guy should always ask the girl. She will make it 
hl.itaniK obvious that she's interested and he'll 



i bat they're... 
only thing I c 
hypocrite. 

I didn't we 

about judging people in most of my columns 
last semester and as I was walking around the 
underwear and bras at Wal-Mart on a Friday 
evening I was weighing the options of getting a 
pint of Ben and jerry's (those two men have got 
to be my most faithful lovers ever) or heading to 
Peanuts for a drink. 

Either way I'd have consumed the same 
amount of calories (this is how I'll explain the ice 
e gym on Tuesday). lam 



ehev 



'I judge 



Being old-fashioned kind of stinks with Dr. 
Phil constantly telling me that I can be happy il 
only I use Match mm and use the Internet to find 
true love. Dr. Phil is the epitome of old-fashioned 
and yet he's embiai ing tei hnnlngyand i el I nig me 
to live a contemporery lite where happiness is 
found in love on the Internet I refuse to believe 
that and will sin k wnb im old-fashioned ways... 
for now. If there are people who enjoy Sponge 
bob teddies then there has surely got to be an 
old-fashioned type of guy wailing somewhere 



Editorial Policy 

ed do not necessarily reflect the views of IPFW, its employees or its student body. A column is solely the opinion ol 
signed, dated and accompanied by a current address, telephone number and class standing/major or title (if applies 
ia email will be verified by telephone or in person. Addresses and telephone numbers will not be published, 
..I board of The Communicator reserved the tight to edit all submissions for length, grammar, style, and darity. Lett 



;rs not meeting these 
d potentially libelous 






Lifestyles of cheap and sleazy deadbeats 



Pasquali's Ponderings 



Oh. yes, another issue running amok in modem society. The 
indolent trash of our communities solely slow down forward 
progress in this country, and they seem 10 be of a special breed all 



clarify, that is just southern white trash). 

The stupidity does not end there. Nope. How about we let the 
dim-witted people breed continuously for generations to come. 
Darwin, where is your natural selection now? 

Put briefly, in natural selection, the most well-adapted 
organisms tend to survive and pass their genes on, while those 
less well-adapted will be eliminated. Well, as long as little, white 
trash children continue to run around Wal-Mart as if it is Disney 
World, I will no longer believe in natural selection. 

What has gotten me more fueled up about this than usual? 1 
recently learned of a man who faked his own death to get out of 
pa\ing child support. 

Wow, 1 am surf those kids will not have problems with their 
responsibility and fatherly issues .is they get older. Just picture it, 
"Umm... ma'am, just because you dye your hair and call yourself 
Fifi, does not mean you get out of paying your taxes." 

lohnny Sterling Martin, the new icon to hopeless sleaze-balls 
and deadbeat parents everywhere, is now in police custody, 28 
years after faking his own death. Twenty-eight. The number just 
appalls me. 

Do you want to know how he got away with it (of course you 
do, this is (on good nol to read)? 

Mr. Rubbish Martin had a court date for failing to pay child 
jstody payments totaling to $4,120, so he had a family member 



itofit? Holy idiot judicial system, 



Really? That was how he 
Batman. 

After looking around more about these deadbeat parents not 
paying child support. I came upon a surprising Web site. Illinois 
has a list of all the "deadbeat" parents who owe $5,000 or more in 
support payments. 

Oh, and this is where it really gets good. One man listed owes 
5287,071.00, or a small mansion. He is probably what I like to call 
a "Maury case." This scenario happens when several different 
women, or in his case, half of the women in New Haven, bring 
him onto the show, claiming he fathered their babies. He cries 
up and down, "1 ain't fathad no bebbies. Youb all don't know who 
yous slept wit." (Sound out for the poor grammar effect). 

The results are in. Whoops! What do you know, "You are 
the father." Now all heck breaks loose. "I told you! I told you," 
claim the heavyset women, jumping up and down the stage. 
Immediately, out comes D West who tries to wrestle him some 
cattle, while wearing his traditional cut-off shin. That sounds 
about right. 

I am not going out to say that only fathers are deadbeats, oh 
no, 1 know there are plenty of mothers out there doing just as poor 
of a job. The mothers may not deal with money issues as much, 
but they are directly influencing the child, most often with lesser 



so they do not continue the useless lifestyle their parents are 
leading. Be a role model for these children now, and get the idiot 
genes out of the pool. 

Now, to sum up Mr. Martin's case: child support in 1979: 
$4,120. Current amount owed: $30,000+. Faking your own death 



calli) 



) thee 






1 he r 



1 been killed ii 



It's a good time to be a geek 



Laughing from the Left 

By Andrew C. Hoover 

ahoover@ipfwcommynicator.org 



Let the title speak for itself: it is a damn fine time to be a geek. 
Perhaps, it is the BEST time to be a geek. 

We have done okay for ourselves. Some of us got filthy rich, 
say, Billy Gates, and others of us have made some fantastic things 
that have captured the world'. imagination like, say, Billy Gates. 
Well, 1 am sure there are other geeks that did good and made 
Momma proud other than Bill Gates. 

All the same, you young geeks have it golden. It is almost 
trendy to begeeky. 

sporting glasses with thick frames, messy hair and scrubby 
goatees is totally Hollywood, fust look at Rivers Cuomo, 
lead singer of Weezer...the quintessential geek is also rapidly 
bet inning very GQ. 

Oh sure, it is no! the highesl In high fashion like Nicole Richie 
nor is it the highest caliber of fame like Tom Cruise or the Pope, 
but it is something. 

Better than being made fun of and having to suffer fools 
like Robert Carradine (star in all four "Revenge of the Nerds" 
movies) at any rate. Moby and Dave Chappelle, the members 
of the bands Sum 41 and My Chemical Romance all consider 
themselves, proudly, to be geeks. 

Almost a golden age. 

This really occurred to me the other night while hanging out 
with a large group of people. 

We were sitting around, telling stories and just generally 
entertaining each other; a good time you might say. 

As the night progressed, one of the younger and attractive 
females asked about the game Dungeons and Dragons. The 
room, filled with older geeks who remembered the jeers and 
verbal assaults, deflected the question with grimaces and mutters 
ol 'nothing ' and "just a game." 

She persisted. One of the other guys, eager to impress the 
young lady, actually worked up the courage to tell her about the 
game. 

To our collective shock she wanted to play and had a genuine 

a question would have sent 



field such a question. 

Socially, D&amp;D was down there with dropouts, kids who wore 
costumes to school on non-Halloween days, and the homeless... 
disdained, ignored, and jeered at every opportunity. 

How things change. ..now it is just another game, a thing 
people do to hang out. 

Oh, I won't be so bold as to call it as socially praised as poker 
or Monopoly, but it has gotten a lot more accepted by the public 
at large. 

Okay, maybe it is better than Monopoly. At least we role- 
playing geeks are not being accused of Satanism and murder 
anymore. 

Other than growing up and getting mature, something else- 
had to happen. Well, geeks got rich. 

The Internet and the computer-boom of the '80s and '90s 



The 



spike 



and billionaires. 
subse 






geeks rich, so rich tlu-y survived die crash of the '90s. Geeks 
started making good, really good, music and movies. Video 
games became more fun, high-tech and beautiful... not just a fat 
plumber running around in an 8-bit world, but truly graphical 
and entertaining experiences. 

Something everyone could get into. And the people that made 
them got rich. 

And the people who play them are starting to get rich... 
motherboards endorsed by tournament winners, hell, just the 
tournaments themselves can net some big cash money. 

Am I saying that the only reason geekiness is "cooler" than it 
was is because it makes tons of money? 

Oh, as a matter of fact, I am. 

So then, young geek, perk up. Things are sunny this day. Grab 
your iPod filled with MC Chris, Opiimus Rhyme and Andrew 
W.K.! Don't comb your hair! 

Put on your glasses and grab your DMG! It is okay, young 
geek, it is okay. 

Keep on being who you are, what you want to be. Roll a d20, 
run that Linux OS, and place that television on G4...our time is 



What the political 
world needs now 



Bearded Wisdom 

By Chris Wetzel 
dvance@ipfwcommunicator.org 



In these grim days ol the Rre.it, beleaguered American republic, 
we are forced to lake a long, hard look at the nation in which we 
are living. Our president has admitted to authorizing criminal 
wiretaps, our legislators are revealed to be more fantastically 
corrupt by the day, and the general public is increasingly unsure 



of why w 



e invaded Iraq. 



v did this happen? Where did we go 
wrong! 

It will be instructive to look to our past, to the leaders we once 
had that weren't a pack ol belligerent, manipulative crooks. We 
can look at leaders like Abraham Lincoln, Frederick Douglass, 
lames Garfield, and Rutherford Hayes, and notice that they all 
have one thing in common. 

They had beards. 

"But wait", you say. "A heard has nothing to do with honesty 
or the ability to lead. In fact, Mayes was an unremarkable one- 
term president and Uirlield was assassinated only four months 
into his term!" You make these objections because you, sir, are 
a communist. Have you ever seen Abraham I incoln without his 
beard? 

For your convenient e, such a picture has been included with 
this column - and iorgn inllowiug him inlo battle or doing great 
deeds, I wouldn't follow ih.it man to K-Mart. 

Icanletyouinoii a I it lie se&lt; ret tlial a certain powerful kitchenware 
manufacturer doesn't want you to know, too. The prevailing 
account of Garfield'- death i- that he was shot by a madman upset 
by his inability to achieve a cushy ambassadorship. 

The truth, printed here for the first time, is that Charles 
Guiteau was actually working on behalf of the mysterious Oneida 
community as part of their plot to eliminate prominent beards, 
which they saw as a threat to their free love collective In New 
York. 

Now Oneida only makes housewares... or so they would have 
us believe. I'd just like to point out that we have no prominent 
bearded politicians, and Oneida is thriving.., you may draw your 
own conclusions. 

In case the above examples didn't convince you of the virtues, 
of beardedness, I'd like to point something out. You know who 
didn't have a beard-' Hitler Neithei did Stalin they both just had 



you to slaughter millions ol iunoi ent people. I don't think anyone 
is going to make that claim. All I'm saying is, Tojo had a moustache 
and Nanking didn't rape itself. 

But the more important quest ion is. what can the beard do for 
us today? Plenty! We all reniemhei shortly at lei the 2000 elections 
when Gore emerged once again into the world sporting a mighty 
beard. He drew criticism lor i( at the time, and indeed only allowed 
it to grow while in -hoik over losing to an idiot man-child. 

All the same, you just try and tell me diat he didn't look more 
presidential with the heard. That wasn't even a well cared-for 
beard; it was a borderline mountain man beard. Just imagine the 
power for change held by a neatly trimmed beard in our hectic, 



all it would prove that he could in lact grow one, and finally put tt 
rest that suspicion in my mind that he's actually a freakishly tall 13 
year old boy with a bumpkin accent and bad skin. 

Knowing thai he is a grown man alter all would, I'm sure, inspire 
no end of new confidence in our citizens and soldiers. 

Not to be ignored is the respect it would generate overseas, as I 
need hardly tell you thai certain foreign situations would become 
far easier if certain foreign persons saw a certai 
respectable man ralher than a child of privilege. 

Of course the changes would not merely be cosme 
power of beardedness confers strength, forth Tightness 
and other virtues possessed in abundance by Grizzly Ada! 



Why, in no time at all our president would find himself favoring 
flannel clothes and living hall the year in a mountain cabin where 
he will wisely care for the forest and heal injured wildlife. It is 
impossible to conceive of such a man ordering hoys into battle for 



Maybe I'd like polit 



s ideas than their 



e this to insult the president, I 



Restaurant job brings grief 



Staff Column 



The past two summers 
nd also during most of my 
;nior year, I've worked 



now. These babies were in the 
middle of a restaurant, what 
I supposed to tell the other 



Those of you customers? 

The babie 



ued 



probably understand the 
varieties of customers that you 
run into on a day to day basis. 
Even if you have never worked 






walked 

Each of the women was holding 
a baby carrier. 1 told them they 
' I go ahead and 



there, through 
lunch. Of course there were 
short breaks, but all the breaks 
ended up in another round of 
shrieking. Finally, the check 
was paid and they headed out 
the door, still screaming. 

Why would a mother let her 
children go on and on like that? 
Especially at a 

Here they 



at 5 o'clock, go out on the lake, 
catch hundreds of fish, and 
then stay all day and feed it to 
dummies like you. 

"Well, what do you have that 
isn't frozen?" 

Salad. Soup. A chicken salad 
sandwich. A B.LT. sandwich. 
Wait, scratch the last one, bacon 
has to be frozen. 

"I guess I'll 






t and I would be right with place, where people 



e trying 






late. 



returned. The ladies had 
sat down at a table near the 
window; the babies were still 
in their carriers, underneath 
the table next to them. That's 
right; they moved the chairs 
and shoved the baby carriers 
beneath the table. 

After I returned with their 
drinks, they were ready to order. 
As I'm standing there, awaiting 
their order, one of die babies 

The baby scream. The shrill, 
heartbreaking baby scream 

The first baby woke the other 
baby and then there were two 

earsplittingc 



break from the office, conduct a 
short business meeting or catch 
up with an old friend, and they 
have to hear two screeching 
babies that aren't properly 
being taken care of during their 



Fine, whatever suits you. 1 
didn't realize that freezing food 
to keep It from spoiling was 



e thinking. 
' msly, what 



lat its ok to do ridiculous 
lings in a restaurant? 
Then there are the people 



going i 

of your 

things like that, don't get 

wrong, because 

maybe 1 do. 

Being that the 
work at also has a bar, I have 
plenty of stories of people in all 
of their drunken glory. I have 
plenty of stories from snobby, 



seafood, so of c 



The 



..l her 






presumably the mother, looked 
at me and said, "Oh, don't worry, 
they'll stop eventually." 

I was completely stunned 



"You don't catch ] 
in the lake?" (The ti 
located on a channel between 



Oh the magnificent life of e 



Advertisers use logos to brainwash 



Staff Column 




As I Stood 
Classroom Medical the other 
day, I watched people walking 
by. It was very apparent to 
me the individuals who had 
confidence and those who 
could be called shy and/or less 
confident, and of course those 
who wanted to be different. 

I have to admit I have always 
considered myself one to go 
against pop culture in many 
respects. Even though I own 
a Nike ball cap and a few Old 
Navy shirts I prefer not to wear 
"logofied" clothing. My biggest 
issue with this is that I paid 
for the items and the company 
gets free advertisement from 
me wearing them. I prefer to 
get what feels comfortable and 
gets the job done. 

I watched the crowd passing 
and thought to i 

thatifyoudono 

have lower self-' 

just seems that having some 

son of name brand item gives 

individuals a more prominent 

disposition. 

As 1 watched the people 
walking by I tried to figure 



jo some research. 1 
later jumped on the Internet 
and searched for any kind of 
studies or statistics on the 
buying of certain products and 
perceptions. I was amazed at 
what I found. I thought that 



study proved that 
individual's perceptions of a' 
product are not as accurate as 
one might think. 

It mentions that 30 percent 
of the individuals studied could 
not tell the difference and that 
this is where branding comes 



.if others based on clothing 
something that 



seems that as we buy products 
we do so not because of a better 
quality, but most likely because 
marketing of that product 



e that it is almost of i 



the Internet conducted a study 

ty depends on imported versus domestic 

" brands of clothing in regards K 



n not saying 

display name 



purchasing. The study showed 
that there was a higher demand 
for imported items from other 



it dawned on me how much J 
myself judge people off their 
clothing, even when I protest 
so much against the logos worn 



And here I thought thai we 
Americans were bad about 
showing off. Along with this of 
course is the ever-popular Paris, 
fashion capital of the world with 
some of the most expensive 
clothing I would never buy, but 

Another interesting factor I 
came across on the Internet is 
a study performed to see if a 



build a certain kind of feeling 

associated with their product. 

I have a little knowledge of 

from my Principals of 



studies brings things i 
whole different perspective. 
Seeing that 1 am such a big 
people-watcher (and what else 
am I to do while I smoke my 
cigarette between classes?) I 



i The Evolution 

"Underworld" hits theaters 
its second edition page A7 



ThI:G&gt;MMI NK .AIi Hi 



Interesting 
premise of 
a new world 



Movie Review 



This is 
i I'v 



I a doubt, die r 



r had t 



World and cannot fiillv decide v 
I like iit Do I hate it? 

I even waited .1 night hi write this I thought 
that if I "slept on it," maybe I would feel stronger 
one way or the other. No such luck. 

TheNewWorlti.^.nvMp.i nlin I, irrell. Christian 
Bale, Christopher Plummer, and 
Q'Orianka Kilcher, is exactly about what the 
previews. uul die media tell you: Pocahontas and 
John Smith. Hut don't be fouled; this is a far cry 
from the Disney version of eleven years ago. 

Terrence Malick's quiet retelling of the 
seventeeinh-ecutiiry love slury does something 
the over-hyped cartoon could not: make the 
s real. (And there are no annoying song 





, teaching her about tlie ways of England, 
havoc breaks out when the Native 

Americans learn thai die 1 ngli-h settlers have no 
intention &lt;if leaving. 

This leads to IVuahontas's father, knowing 
fully that she gave the settlers seed for corn, 
exiling her from the tribe. She is cast off and 
then bought b\ the "president" (as ihey call ill of 



v be with her beloved. Il is a sad day 



Enter Captain John Rolfe (Bale. 



► NEW WORLD: Page A 7 



Philharmonic's 
birthday bash for 
musician Motzart 



By Louisa Danielson 



The all-Mozart performance opened with 
Eine Kleine Nachtmusik, a serenade for string 
orchestra. Mozart wrote ibis piece while taking 
a brief vacation from his work on the opera 
Dim Uiovanui in 17(17. Ibis evening, the light 
notes of the serenade w 
applause between n 
of the piece. 

The concert continued with the Symphony 
no. 12 in G major. One of Mozart's earlier 
symphonies, this piece was probably completed 
by the time the composer was fifteen years old 
The fourth movement of the symphony includes 
harmonies that are reminiscent of the Orient. 
Music Director l.dvard Ichiv/hel mentioned 
that this was a popular technique used during 
Mozart's time. 

Following the intermission, the orchestra 
was joined by the Philharmonic Chorus and 
ihe Heartland « liambi-r &lt; horale logelher thev 



performed a number of fi 
works, which, Tchivzhel said, are not heard very 
often. Pieces included Ave Verutn (Jurpu^ 1K.UH1 
Inter Natos Mulierum (K. 72) Mi*rirorrlit,s 
Domini IK. 222i I Wide I'onuli iK. 260) Kyrie IK. 
341) and VeniSanae ^pinius Iclmv.hel spoke of 
the "contrapuntal brilliance" of the MiwrUonlius: 
this pkee resembled work by llach and displayed 



s shorter sacred 



choirs in the Vinete. 

Choir director Robert Nance walked onstage 
to accept several bows with I chiwhel at the close 



Unique vision 
shows at new 
Willis Gallery 
in Visual Arts 



By Eric Millard 



worldwide and personal v 
the viewer with a human experience transcending culture, 
class and age The images affect you immediately with their 
boldness. The shapes entice and intrigue. The unique masks 
that greet you front, right arid left forbid you to turn callously 
away. You stand transfixed, transfigured and compelled to 
understand This is the profound, the personable, artistry of 
Willis Ring" Davis. 

"The mistake of contemporary art is that it has become 
distant from the ordinary person.' says Davis. "Il has become 
elitist. I want to rekindle interest in art as an expression 
of everyday lire." Viewing ihe diversity of Davis's art. one 
recognizes (hat appreciation for the unexpected, unadorned 
moment where honesty slums Irom experience bared in a 
gaze or a gesture. Most so in his photography, where human 
expression is surrounded by vivid, substantiating color and 

But also in his woudciiulh organ it. and free spirited pottery, 
one sees, or perhaps feels, a respect for the elements with 
which Davis works, bui does not try to master. One derives a 
sense of cooperation, both in the intent of Davis as artist, and 
in the message one carries out the doorway and back into that 
even-day life Davis wants passionately to educate and edify, 
about art. but more so, about what art can presen'e and inspire 
in humanity. 

"There are specific themes I try to convey through my work," 
says Davis. "One theme is a reconnect ion with African culture 
and its placement of importance on respect for ancestors as 
i of passage." Davis sees a need, especially among 



society's African-American youth, to 

a heritage thai is lilc-attiiniing and thai era mirages productive 

p. mil ipation m one's community. 

He hopes that the positive impact of art can be a counter to 
negative influences on youth, such as gangs. 

► WILLIS GALLERY: PageA? 



Willis "Bing" Davis Gallery 
Visual Arts Building 



1 Opening February 24 

Just next door to Visual Arts 
is Williams Theatre where 
"Comedy of Errors" will open. 



i March 24-April 13 

Senior BFA Exhibits are 
featured. Opening reception is 
March 24 from 6-8 p.m. 



Diversity of 
area artists 
displayed at 
co-op gallery 



Rarely have I visited a gallery that makes such 
efficient use oi space to display such a variety of 
media. From eccentric but I'legani handcrafted jewelry to 
vivid, expressive paintings and plmmejapliy, flu* Orchard 
Gallery of Fine Art presents a fascinating display of local 
talent. For students interested in diverse and unique 
an styles, The Orchard Gallery will be hosting a series of 
exhibits over the upcoming few months. 

Until January 31, the gallery will display a collection 
ni delighilul ,\\n.i imaginative jewelry by Greg and B.J. 
Jordan. From February 2 through 2!), Sue Davis will 
present her mixed media paintings and collages, spirited 
works inspired by organic ami geologii contours, shapes 
and tenures. March 2-11 Ihe Orchard Gallery will host 
"Making Waves 1 " an invitational spring exhibit where 
several artists improvise works centered upon the theme 
word "wave," from clay pieces and glasswork io painting 



29 Kim Rorick, 

present hei hand painted porcelain pottery. May -1-30 
The Orchard Gallery will have on display Ian McMunry 
Arnold's lively depictions of everyday .m^ fantasy scenes, 
from dog shows to mermaids to coastal landscapes. 

Whatever the current exhibit, The Orchard Gallery 
always has works by the aforementioned and other artists 
lor viewing ami purchase. Simply perusing the store's 
offerings is a delight, but any of them would make a 



Founded by local artists in l l if! t. The Orchard Gallery 
of Fine Art is a cooperative establishiiieni with many of 
its original members still involved and dial welcomes the 
p.irm ipation of new, local artists. The Orchard Gallery is 
,t 6312A Covington Road in Fort Wayne, about a 



I 



nile south ot kllci-on i'&lt;i 



The Orchard Gallery 
Covington Shops 

Gallery open 10 a.m. - 5 p.m 



i January Feature 

This month's feature is the 
distinctive jewelry work of 
Greg and BJ Jordan. 

i June 18-19 

The Orchard Gallery 
participates in the annual 
Covington Art Fair. 



Underworld: Evolution sets no new standards 

■ Like most sequels, the new film hardly lives up to the original piece or the pre-release hype 



Movie Review 



i do mean stupid) previews to 
end. When it finally started, the 
audience gets the back story 



and bites Mike. Now, normally 
a human couldn't take both 
, but he happens 



taken out every single one in 
the coven; then burns their 
house to the ground. Next, he's 



Let me preface this article 
before I get to the nitty-gritty. I 
have been breathlessly awaiting 
the premier of Underworld: 
Evolution since I saw Marcus 
accidentally being fed blood 
' e original three long years 
sucker * r ~~ 
Ml of th 

the immortality. Maybe it's 
the allure of boundless power 
(if you forget about the whole 
the "sun-is-a-killer" thing). 
Maybe it's the wicked t 



sinker. I'm completely unafraid 
to admit that I own— and 
regularly watch — the unedited 
director's cut of Underworld. 
(And all of the Blade trilogy... 
and Queen of the Damned.. .the 
Ijsi jusi goes on.) 

Anyway, I was so excited to 
see this flick that 1 was actually 
giddy, like a girl that has just 
gotten her first kiss. I sat. albeit 



l that has "Star V 
itten all c 



Corvinus decent; which then 
turns him into the first hybrid important 
rip-off (half-lycan, half-vamp). Come a lycan or a vamp drinks the 



: that, 



Marcus, was bitten by a bat, 
while the other, William, was 
bitten by a wolf. But before I go 
any further, perhaps 1 should 
give you the Reader's Digest 
version of the first one, lest 
this review make absolutely no 
sense (not that they ever do.) In 
Underworld, Beckinsale plays 



: for food (which 
is highly unusual). So, she does 
what any good vamp would do: 
she hunts down Michael (the 
human who is played by Scon 
Speedman) herself in hopes to 
figure out why the lycans want 
him. She finds him, falls in 
love with him and watches him 
get bitten by the most hardcore 
of all lycans. Then her world 
gets rocked when she finds out finding 
that the vamp that turned " 
also killed her family (she 



why the 
lycans were after him. Caught 
up? Good. 




are transferred. 
that. Marcus finds Selene and 
tries to kill her, but Michael 
to the rescue. He doesn't kill 
Marcus, but he roughs him up 



..noihine. 
big. Marcus retreats, giving 
Michael and Selene ample 



upid (and kill Michael, so she kills Viktor 



of Viktor (there's no reference 
to "Buffy" at all. ..ok, maybe 
a little one.) Little do they 
know that Marcus is alive and 
killing. He has systematically 



i the first one). 
Fast forward an hour and you 
find out that Selene has some 
very important information 
locked away in that immortal 
brain of hers. You also learn 
why, when Viktor decimated 
her family, he kept her. (1 
give that away.) The 
of the aforementioned info 
leads to one bloody knock- 
down-drag-out fight in which 
the good guys prevail. (Can 
there really be "good guys- 




Illustration by Eugene Harding and Andres Pontes 



■: rarely us good, and almost first. Which, lei's lie real, isn't* 

iver better, than the original, saving ton terribly much. Did 

and Underworld: hvoltilion is no I like it- Ofioursc. Will I buy; 

bloodsuckers?) Plus, much to different. This one was much it? Naturally. Was 1 let down?' 

my approval, they leave it open darker— in every single aspect. A little. Here's hoping the third. 






there \i 



aim i, 



elilnod. hill 



■ let there he i 



- -till i 



Another theme that is central to Davis' 
uuavoid.ihK and visceially present in his c 
powerful social commentary. His"' 



&gt; art, and that is 
irrent exhibit is a 
Brutality Mask #5" 
opolitical consciousness. The 
mask but as an embodiment of 
experience, strangely unassuming and yet implacably solid. It is 
also a characteristic example of Davis's ingenious assemblage of 
"found" objects into a coherently and complexly eloquent work 



Davis's largest works, in terms of size alone, are stark oil 
pastels o7i black rag board and emory cloth that evoke, more 
than anything, the kente and adinkra textiles of Ghana, where 
fabric is woven with patterns and symbols that have special 
significance, such as democratic rule or creative innovation. Davis 
lias mentioned, too, his experience in Nigeria as inspiration 
pastels. However, there is anothi 

pieces, Davis reveals, that underlies the broader cultural 
"My grandmother was a quilter." says Davis. "And the slave quilt; 



intertwining energy. One might consider die emergence of this 
energy from pattern as symbolizing the spirit of both Davis as 
artist and as cultural celebrator. In a way. his art serves a purpose 
similar to many of Africa's tribal dances— to strengthen the bonds 
within a community. 

Davis spent much of his life, in addition to his an. teaching 
students to find their own artistic spirit and voice. "Teaching 
is a process of sharing," Davis says. "Whenever I have taught, 1 
have learned something in return from my students." Speaking 
with Davis, one recognizes immediately a personal sensitivity 
and a desire to foster a love of community wherever he goes. 
"Art helps me to understand myself and others." Davis has been 



involved in international conferences where arti: 
meet and interact with fellow artists in Africa, as well 
In his hometown of Dayton, Ohio, Davis is working v 
community artists to arrange a celebration of one of 
first black poets, Paul Laurence Dunbar, through various anistic 

presentations that honor Dunbar. This, the latest in a life defined WALLS: A sample of Willis displayed tn the gallery, 
personal level to these by community involvement and concern, leaves the impression 




that, for as long a 



e will h 



world ,i 



e for cooperation 



i played a role in inspiring r 



entided "Ancestral Spirit Dance." display at IPFW's Visual A 

of his oil pastels presents a regularly patterned image of 



, perhaps more importantly, i 



geometrical shapes and isolated color that erupts it 



" (there's a subtle innuendo 
there) with him because she is married to 
it least emotionally. 



i. and a couple from her ti 
voyage across the ocean. 

They meet the royalty and Rebecca i 



400 years, The New World captures the 
innocence and devotion between two of 
America's foremost characters. 

All the audience sees are idyllic shots 
of Smith and Pocahontas frolicking in the 
woods or river. 

There're a lot of shots of them holding 
hands and touching one another's skin. It's 
all very pure, very beautiful. 



The acting, though, was great. 

Bale never disappoints. 

Farrell. well, I'm not his biggest fan 

(does he not know how to un-furrow his 
eyebrows?!), but he did all r 



Kilcher 
stupendoi 
I think it takes a better actor t&lt; 
olhing than to be riddled with words. 



(who's related to Jewel) v 



onlyfifteen. 









me shot of a waterfall or young 
a thousand; which is part She 

not sure how 1 feel about 



ce-to-face with 
her one true love. (Am I making you sick 
yet? Because I just threw up a little in my 
mouth.) 

Walking through the gardens of the 
palace, they speak— not a lot, but they 
speak — of their lives now, and she realizes 
that she could have never been with him 
forever. 

She understands that she is with the 
man meant for her. She asks that Rolfe 
take her back home, but, unfortunately, 
she never makes it there. She dies, with her 
husband at her side. 

A story that has remained in lore for 



There wa: 

bird, there v 
of the reasot 
the film. 

Don't get me wrong, the landscape 
were breathtaking, but it just made th 
movie move so slowly. 

It was roughly two and a half hours Ion 
and, honestly, the story could've been toll 

Also, there was no real climax. I had I 
ask the friend I went with if I just missed ii 



Dakota Fanning have I seen a 

s talented as Kilcher. 

from having the affect ol a 

child to being a woman; it was wonderful. 

1 know, in my head, that she didn't grow, 



it her presence matured while she w 

Overall, after writing this, I think I c 
say that I enjoyed The New World. I dc 
think I'll buy it, i 



—but definitely an 
Not bad for a 15-year-old, but only ii 
day's work for an actor. 



taken on a rollercoaster ride of ei 

Then again, I got very antsy and a LOT of 
people walked out. 



Are you an IPFW 

organization that isnt 

posted on our 

weekly events 

schedule? 

Contact Us! 



Indiana-Purdue Student 

Newspaers, Inc. 

Walb Student Union 

Suite 215 

Phone:(260)481-6584 

contact@ipfwcommunicator. 

org 




February 2006 

. SUN MON TUE WED THU FRI SAT !£' 



Join us for Black History Month at IPFW, 

sponsored by the Office of Diversity 

and Multicultural Affairs. 

3 Black History Awareness Forum 
•■I he Hole of the Church 
in the Community" 



ASAP! Retention Talk - 
Student Discussion Series 

'■African American 
Student Perspectives" 



l.uiliUlnlln I - 



15 
16 



1^&gt;» MCSCospi 



r, International Services 
Diversity Game 

\uun-l .10 pin . Wjlh Student Union, 
Hmmisi^. 11% anil lib 
hniliuu-il hv M.irv I elilo. \i idem it Ad* i so r, 
u.ideiiiH Cuun-eliiii; .md career Services 

Men of Color Think Tank Forum 



Coordinator of Religinu: 

MCS Gospel Celebration, 



24 



"Black Men. Black Women, 
Do tie have anything In 

\,h,i.-I Wpm VUhSlu.lr 



.NefTHall.F 
Audience Li encouraged to participate! 

Featuring CurisCrislcr,VtsiiJjtgA&lt; ' 



awiii 



— 



13 



» 



d3 



UBC has positives, more cons 



Witty Banter 

By Skip Hooligan 

&amp; Trip McFeely 
sportsgipfwcommunkatororg 






t much to talk about 
'tit? 



third issue logethc 
the Magic Kingdom. Well. 1 






Skip: Like hanging out at the Magic Kingdom. Well, to start we found 
ourselves in .1 basketball conference IliiH may tie lit. higgi-si juke Nine.' 
,M (.ore running fin president. Also, wed like to discuss the need for 
nctier IPFW alblciics Web sltea 
anything else? 



d overall spurts coverage from litis week: 

Tfipfl think we can mention a few things about the men's volleyball 
performance lasl weekend against a top-ranked team. Ready to embark 
on another adventure Sir Hooligan? 

Skip: Hi-ho. Now litis week we learned we .ire joining ,1 little siuni-lhing 
called the United Hasketball I nnforcnec My lirsl gill feeting is like, what a 
jnke. After a heahliv bowel cleansing, my gut still told me this was a joke. 
Wti.ii du vnu think? 

Trip: For those of you that don't know, IPFW joined independenl 
bands witli N Dakoia State. S Dakota Slate. Utali Valley Stale, Texas Pan- 
American .ind our personal favorite, NIIOT Gin you break that acronym 
down for our fans, Skip? 

Skip: Now lust In Our Team sticks? 

Trip: Close, New Jersey Institute of technology. I hear their mascot is a 
I GB flash drive. 

Skip: /\li yes, the Flghtln' Nerds. 

Trip: So this ad-hm conglninerair of homeless Dl programs started 
their own "conference" lasi week, and how would \ou judge die inception 
oi the mighty UBC? 

Skip: Well there are two ways to look at this. 1) It will help our 
scheduling, which is a major plus, and 1 think you would agree, 
,1 horrible damn idea just to make a "conference" 
purposes. 

Trip: I agree. It does snlidilv out -c lu-duling in January and February 
when the majority ot teams are playing 'hen own conference- schedule. 
Hui we still have to go in Iexas, die Dakntas. anil Utah to play these teams. 
Ill, it cant help the ll'l W athletics savings account. Another thing that 
makes me laugh is the fact thai everywhere in the papers and 1111 the news 
it was commented bv coat lies and athletic directors that this is NOT a 
conference, don't refer to it as a conference i hen Win call ii the United 
liaskctbalK HM1 HI N( I-"?!:'! Silly people. 

Skip: What do you mean'' I think this will gel niajoi sponsors like Nike, 
McDonalds. IVpsiand Subway. I mean lured can tie the llniied llaskethall 
Conference spokesperson and eat crappy sutis and talk about the crappy 
conference with a side of Baked Lays. Why don't all the remaining 
Independents come logeitier and form something that can get them 
the tournament somewhere down the line? Where 
1 nngwnud at in this? 

Trip: Because they are smarter than us. I also heard lhal we are now 
down to five people in this "alliance." Since North Dakota State beat 
Wisconsin on the road last weekend, they have taken Purdonts spot in 
the Big 10. 

Skip: Yeah. Purdue certainly blows, just like (his idea Why aren't the 
link pendents doing home ami away games mm anyway? This makes no 
logii 10 me at all. If you look at it, North Dakota state had a lot of money 
at dial game ai Wisconsin due to them, so they really had nothing to lose 
it with an amazing win. I hat was a wiiumt program is striving 



Skip I llon'l know; the s, lieduling ihuig I like Maybe we won't have 
.•yen-game road stretches now. bui the idea in iisell is moronic, really; 
they might as well add the Sally Strulhers Irmk Driving Academy and 
" izarelli School of Cool in ii as well. Their team looks pretty damn 

Trip: I also heard the Bayside Community College is also on the radar. 
So our volleyball team losl iwic e over die weekend, but showed promise for 
ihis year and beyond. And hey 1 We are back in the top IS in the country! 

Skip: Yes we are. I he California teams are lough though, plus those 
surfers play volleyball a lot out there. This weekend everyone needs to 



Trip: ' 



&gt;. have 



■kickin' to give out to those bird lovers down South. It s 
right now the volleyball team has the talent, they are just making a 
inexperienced mistakes. We have a lot of youngin's out there, but I 
you, Colin Lundeen is a hell of a setter. 

Skip: I've heard so. We need 
complete lineup of hoodlums, 1 
need put in their place. 

Trip: 1 agree, Ibev still lean on being David 1-etterniaii's alma mater like 
lie is still the funniest guy 111 late night. Sorry redbirds fans, Conan O'Brien 
passed him long ago. 

Skip: I know, Dave SUCks now I just hope our clever marketing 
department makes some more of those great shirts, don't you? 

Trip: Oh I know So all die ll'l W freeloaders can show up and get a shirt 
then leave. 

Skip: Agreed. Inn people need tit show up. 1 believe Ball Slate in men's 

and women's volleyball are our only rivals that are huge in any sport. 

Beside-, Ball State is a cesspool of garbage around an even larger pile 

called Muncie. 

for scheduling Trip: if that's possible. I'd rather have no football team than a team like 



Skip: Agreed. So basically the students need t 

men's volleyball team on. Il's usually a good nine \ 


show up and root the 
hen Ball State comes to 
vomen's basketball this 


week too, haven't we 

Trip: Yes sir. The 

where they will be it 


Tripster? 

ntinuestobec 


a game lasl weekend on the road, 
ccond coming ol I tuisi Meanwhile 
mpelitive vet still can't get a win. 



Skip: I know, f 

road. And our women's team is competitive but can't seem to 
"W." Ashley Johnson has stepped her game up, though. The wor 
a huge game Wednesday against Butler. That would be a huge w 

Trip: Any win for them is huge at this point. Hopefully they c 
St. and off the Bulldogs and maybe get o 






11. We competed with Mu I iigan Slate 



for. 

Trip: And perhaps ii 
and Purdpnl on the road this year tor a tiali 
th^qiher team doesn't show up, as the Badge 

ivalry g; 

Trip And what sj he ileal with leaving our other sports 1 
ot invite the softball and baseball teams into ilus illustrious "alliance?" 

Skip: Or our water jioloand ballroom dancing t( 



Skip: True. Then they can put it on our amazing Web site, can't they? 

Trip: Oh my word, skip ll could lie il it- worsi in collegiate sports. And it's 
not necessarily anyone's fault up there now because they are all stretched 
thin. All I'm wondering is, we have all this money to renovate and add on 
10 the Gates (enter, why can't we hire someone to do a decern Web site-' 

Skip: Idon'i know It's like something a tend) grader would do, and that 
may be putting down the tenth grader. 

Trip: Here's an idea. Follow me here, everyone. How about we hire a 
lew graphic arts and design students tin face I hear they have one ai their 
disposal up 1 hen- and pay i hem n: develop a pirn pin Web site? Heck, we 
are in a conference, wait, excuse me, an ALLIANCE now! 

Skip: I concur ( it her colleges blow ours away. Most oldiis year we had 
players on our headers thai weren't even playing. , 

Trip: And we could aKd update the stats on the 1ndivi1U1.il players' 
|),igc-.saJso. It's just a Luce, del -someone lojusi deal with the Web sile, Thai 






ntly,i 






1 ould perhaps give 11 

Skip: And have sioi 
schools do But maybe 
lake years to develop. 



e (gasp!) credibility. 



Trip: Yes ii does covet die women too Not like ii will matter I hear the 
I ighlin Nerds don'i have a women's team, but they do have a hard-drive 
building team. 

Skip: Guild, they'll lose their jobs anyway to India. So quick recap on 
the UBC. Trip. 

Trip: Well, ii helps us in scheduling Hut in terms of joining a conference. 
this is a step backwards With mv teams it's too small to be considered for 
ic bid for the NOW tourney Perhaps the Mid -Con and Horizon 



basketball ton' Nothing has been Trip: Yes. yes. Maybe it will happen when they re- name the Dirk Baxter 

Memorial Stadium, Arena and Petting Zoo to The Skip and Trip Mutt Cutts 
Palace. 

Skip: 1 hear plans arc in the works to do just that. Well Tripster, it seems 
we have reached the end of the road in another amazing article. 

Trip: Yes. we have. 1 cannot wan umil we have some groupies. But I hear 



will consider u 
Ind.'s 



s thing and ti 



the first groupie c 
Skip: And V 

Trip: Well that's it for this week. Everyone take care and 
through another week. Until next lime, this is Skip Hooligat 
McFeely bidding you adieu. 






point game again. Hall called a lime out to 
calm his troops. The next play saw freshman 
Colin I undeeii give a perfect set to junioi lason 
Hemphill, who knocked down one of his six kills 
to give IPFW the game w' 



to a 23-18 lead. Northridge rallied a 

within two points before Ullrich ended their 

game four hopes with a powerful kill. 

In the fifth and deciding game, IPFW came 
out strong and finished strong, but fell fiat 
somewhere in between, allowing a 5-5 game to 
turn into a 5-10 game, Fittingly, a Kneubuhl kill 
did in the Mastodons as Norihridge celebrated 
the close win. 

"Their defense was much better than ours 
and ii's trust rating when you can't put a ball away 
so we started to make some mistakes," Macias 
noted. "We still ilmii have that killer instinct to 
put teams away when they're ready to be put 
away. In volleyball vim have to be able to do that 
because vou can't just run out the clock. If you 
stop playing, you lose." 

Macias led' ll'l W on Friday with \.l kills and 
11 digs. Ullrich added 11 kills and 8 digs while 
I undeeii helped on the set with :i 6 assists. 

Even in the loss, Macias knows that even the 
chance to play against lellow ranked teams like 
.Norihridge is very important. 

"All the Midwest teams still are considered 
lesser caliber than the out west teams so even 
though we are in the rankings with them, we still 
have to show that we can play with any team in 
the country when 11 comes time." he said. 

The Mastodons entered the next night looking 
to make things a litde different in their rematch 
with the Matadors Hut despite strong attempts, 
il was again Norihridge who walked away victors 
3-1 (30-17,27-20,30-25,33-31). 

Again, Northridge came out on the attack 
in front of the crowd of 1,287 fans at the Gates 
Center. Lischer came out on the offensive, 
registering seven kills in the opening game to 
give the Matadors ,m advantage Lischer had 16 
kills on the night and was one ol lour Northridge 
players to enter double-digits in kills. 

kneubuhl also added 16 while Cary Hanson 
had 10 kills and 1 1 digs. Rhodes lead the team 
and the match with 19 kills, lie also had 10 digs. 

"The first game, we weren't ourselves at all, we 
just got dominated,'' noted Ullrich, 

This time, the Mastodons did not wait until 

the third game to fight back, putting on a block 

party against Northridge led by senior Serdar 

Sikca ami sophomore lush Stewart. Sikca, who 

ranked in the top 20 nationally in blocks a 



had five block a 

Steward had eight assis 
from Friday night's 



11 Saturday v. 



; wnh his 



points at the end ol tht'ga 

propelled 1PFW to the win 

"We tried to focus on 

game instead worrying ab 



it them," Macias said 
made for Saturday. 

iifl"i &lt; 



i of the adjustm.1 
After a third game 
and were left playing catch-up. the Mastodons 
entered game four with a renewed spirit. Every 
time the Matadors would strike, the Mastodons 
would strike back leading by as many as four at 
25-21, With the game ai 2H-H8. Mat 1,1s slammed 



e of his 



a high 17 kills 10 put II 



a game point situation. Again Northridge fought 
back at took the game point adv. ullage at 31-30. 
Just in the knick of time, Hemphill saved the 
day for 1PFW with a kill as the Matador block 
attempt veered out ol hounds. But it just was 
not to be for 1PFW as a Stewart service error 
and a block by Matadors Travis Blumling and 
Man Bellante ended the night with a win for 
Norihridge at 33-31. 



lage was tabbed to win the i oleman Division. 
While other teams have already played conference games. 
IPFW will begin their play this week with I wo opponents they have 
much history with. Lewis is in their final season of NCAA sanctions 
after using an ineligible player several years ago when they won 
the National Championship and will likely start many freshmen 
this weekend according to IPFW coach Arnie Ball. The Flyers 
have 16 freshmen on the roster, one sophomore and only two 
up|ierclassmen. both juniors. On Saturday night, the I 
wall travel to Loyola where they knocked off the number t 



"We're really going to have 10 he in die game mentally especially 
for Loyola because the gym is so small and loud that you can 
easily fall apart," noted Macias. "Not to mention they're going be 
wanting some revenge alter these guvs beat them last year so it'll 



Macias is a transfer to IPFW from Findlay, who no longer has a 
men's volleyball program, ll'l \\ knocked Findlay out of the MIVA 
Tournament last season before advancing to face Loyola in the 
Semi-Finals. "We want to win the MIVA outright this season. It 
is really important to come out this weekend,'' sophomore Brock 
Ullrich said of the urgency to have a strong showing against two 
perennial MIVA top teams. In preparation for the start of MIVA 
play, IPFW has started 2-2 hosting Carthage, Juniata and sixth 

also played strong i 

focusing 



weekend. 
Macias, 



:ond in the conference. IPFW tias a fairly long team 
j most in the MIVA. Last weekend against Northridge, 
one freshman antl tout sophomores. More than likely, 
players will start and/or see significant time this 



e of the sophoi 



e youth to be 



"As young as we seem we are actually pretty experienced. Pretty- 
much everyone on the court this year was a starter last year, our 
setter (Colin Lundeen) has a lot of experience from playing in 
junior college in Canada so that helps, and (senior) Serdar Sikca 
has a lot of volleyball experience and does a really good job picking 
up things we are missing and letting 11 s know about it." he said. 

Loyola is predicted 10 finish third in the conference with the 
young Lewis team tabbed t&lt; 






Despite being ranked fifteenth nationally and being picked 



With the pair of losses. IPFW falls to 2-15 this season and 1-8 under Paul. The Mastodons an 
currently on a seven game skid but will look 10 revive the winning ways against Hurler on Jan. 25 a 
1. IPFW hosts Longwood three days later at 1 p.m. 



Gates Center a 

Martinez twins break school record 

The IPFW women's track and field team finished in sixth place of six teams at the Bowling Green 
State meet on Jan. 20 with 17 points, hut freshmen sisters Crystal and Crysiina Martinez broke 
teammate Ashley Rite bey's school record in the .0(10 meter run. 

Crystal finished in 18:07 and Crysiina finished soon thereaftera 



:t her record of 4.56 meters in 2003. 

NCAA to release RPI ratings on Feb. 2 

The NCAA men's and women's basketball tournament comn 
(Ratings Percentage Index) ratings for the first time ever on Feb, : 

The RPI ratings help select die tournament postseason fields a 
com from Feb. 2 through the end of the season. 



3:12. The old record of 18:13 w 

In the long jump, leaping I 



s will publicly release the RPI 
n be found at www.ncaasports. 



Liltlepage, chairman of the E 

"We think that announcing the results of the RPI ranking on a weekly basis has i 

Worth noting 

Independent mens 
Ian. 21. It was the Badg 

games at Kohl Center. 

The Bison are in iheir third year ol a live year transit inn process from Division II io Division I and 

are one of five teams to join IPFW in the United Basketball (.ont.-rencc aim' .c-d last week, IPFW 

plays the Bison on Feb. 4 and Feb. 26. 



GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 



We're hiring students NOW, part-time and FULL-TIME! 



Home City Ice 



Flexible Hours and GREAT PAY!! 

Route Delivery Positions Available 

We Offer 10-40+ Hours/Week! 

$8.00 to $12.00+ /Hour 

Great part-time hours are available and we offer schedule flexibility. Work around your 

school schedule with morning/afternoon and weekend hours. 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! 

Train in one facility during school, and work in another during summer break! 

Schedule an interview today and bring a friend! 

CALL TODAY: 1 (800) 622-6566 



Or uisit us at www.hoinecityice.coni to fill out an online aniilication! 



Depth, strengths shown 



tffffi 



In All Directions 



On the surface, it looks just 
like a pair of losses. But if you 
look a little deeper, you will 
see that this past weekend's 
volleyball matches were season 
defining performances. Yeah 
they lost both matches, but the 
Ix:. Ki. passion and pure talent 
that the Mastodons showcased 
will live on in my memory for 

The team came ready to play 
despiteanyandail preconceived 
notions. They were outranked 
and perhaps overmatched, but 
that did not stop the Mastodons 
from hanging with the sixth 
ranked Matadors from start to 
finish both nights. I have to 
give credit to this team that I 
personally did not know what 
to expect out of. 

"We've been second rate 
to the California teams for 35 
years," coach Arnie Ball said. 
"We try very hard to narrow 
the gap." 

This past weekend was a 
nice step in the right direction 
to help narrowing that gap. So 
thumbs up to Ball and his team 
for taking a proactive stance on 
trying to be seen on the same 



a casual fan, that 1PFW should 
not be a top contender in the 
MIVA or in the country. But 
the play that the team has 
demonstrated so far, even in two 
losses, should counteract most 
if not all of those opinions. 

Let's face an obvious fact; 
this is a very young team. There 
is one freshman (two if counting 
red shirt Corey Stewart) and 



Two of those seven second-year 
players (Mike Morici and Josh 
Stewart) played huge minutes 
last season and another (Brock 
Ullrich) was able to come in 
several times under pressure 
and provide. Throw in the 
addition of Findlay transfer 



younger players for stepping 
up in a year where there is no 
real dominant upperciassman 
as there has been in the past 
few years with Matt Zbyszewski 
and Jeff Ptak. 

"Theiryouth and enthusiasm 
plus. They work 



players may not do," Ball said 
of the team. 

But that is not to say that they 
do not have excellent senior 
leadership. The Mastodons 
now have only two seniors in 
Serdar Sikca and Mike Daiga. 
The other two seniors, Mike 
Randolph and Nick Belman are 
no longer with the team. 

Sikca is a solid pan of the 
starting lineup and one of the 
best blockers in the country 
this year. Daiga is an excellent 
specialist off the bench in that 
he has range as an outside 
or middle hitter, is a strong 
blocker and spent pan of the 
2005 season as a setter. 

And with all of those legit 
strong players comes fierce, 
yet friendly intersquad 
competition. And that 



competition, according 
Macias, is going to make 
i that much stronger. 



he said. "Everyone is constantly 
duking it out in practice to win 
that spot on the court. It really 
pushes everyone harder." 

Now as they look ahead, 
the open-mindedness ■ 



Josh Collins, Jerrod 
Quillon and fason Hemphill 
(who is in his fourth year with 
the Mastodons, including a 
red shirt season) will continue 
to mesh and the team will 



d MIVA 

exactlywhentheyneeditto. Last 
year, the team was a decent one 
through the regul; 



and commradery 



And what happened? After 
edging out a feisty Findlay 
team in round one, they upset 
tournament top seed Loyola- 
Chicago to advance to the 
MIVA finals and the elite eight 
of the national 



time. They could very well be 
national title contenders come 




POKER TOURNAMENT 

Qualify lor the Hationah 
E. WisUaglen (tr. il Coldwater Ri • Nut lo tie Marriott 



$ 2 COVER 

wUhStwkntlD 



peaking at the right t 



challenge the Mastodons in 
terms of ability and stamina. 

"We will face some tough 
teams this year," Bums said. 
"Really 

iking 

lependent 



and this is the year that we can 
really break through, make the 
goals that we have set since the 
beginning." 



Tip 

% Communicator 

;oom^^ s looking for 
g&amp;g^ Columnists, 
Writers, 




Photographers 

■■■■ '^^jhjq an Editorial 
* "tfl '^tm Cartoonist 

i if interested, 

'contact 
Irianna 
ielford at: 

481-6584 or 
:ontact@ipfwcommunicator.org 




Seniors lead in 2006 



key to the success of the men's tennis team ilns 
year. Coach Eric Bums, along with five seniors. 
are hoping to improve upon a disappointing 
2005 season and battle again for their first win 
in the Mid-American Conference since their 
admittance in 2003. 

An experienced squad, with only two freshmen 
and two transfers to add to last season's program, 
a second take on last year's season added with 
some new competition, will make for an exciting 
and possibly record year for the Mastodons. 

Despite the experience and fresh talent, 
according to Burns the dynamics of team is 



really good rapport with one another; we work 
well together." 

"Obviously, the seniors, being the most 

e\perienccd members of the team, will really 
lead in terms of the goals we have set for the 
season, but all ol tlic in mils are very near ready 
to play at this level," Burns said. 

The team, along with its new recruits will get 
ili first chance In compete against first time rival 
IUPUI on Friday, Jan. 27. 

'We hope to go down there and get a win," 



o play ii 



Among those talented 

Hermann Kuschke of Windhoek, Nambia and 
Arturo Salgado of Mexico City, Mexico. Kuschke, 
a freshman recruit for the Mastodons, spent last 
season training at Van DerMeer Tennis Academy 
in South Carolina. An impressive junior career, 
he was at one time ranked number one in ITF 
standings and 17" 1 in South Africa. Salgado, a 
transfer from Charleston Southern, completed a 
winning record of 8-5 for the Buccaneer's in his 
freshman season. Also competing well in the 
junior division, he ranked as high as 10 ,h in his 
division in Mexico. 

However, a good balance of the team goes 

level of play of the newcomers of the 

Even in terms of leadership, a sharing of 



Burns said. "Well 

We expect to go ii 

a strong team, but if we play to our abilities, we 

have a really good chance." 

Blessed with a talented team and a deep 
rosier, positions for friday's match-up against 
the laguars is still undecided, but according 
to Jackson, new doubles partners junior Carlos 
Gonzalez, and sophomore transfer Arturo 
Salgado could possibly fill a position together. 

Skills aside, however, the mental toughness 
ol the Mastodons, noi only against the laguars, 
but also against nationally ranked schools that 
will appear later in the year, such as Western 



this weekend, ant 
he said. "We do l) 
in anything, just j 
can improve in ( 



o be able to play our game, 
i every match this season," 



In check, we will 
had problems 
improve 



beyond ji 



staving mentally tough; hopefully \ 
upon that this season." 

With mental toughness, new talent and some 
'" again regain a winning 



the responsibility from ; 
has added to the overall chemistry of the team. 
Sophomore Tony Mitson will join seniors Daniel 
lacks on and Scott Beasely in the leadership role 
of captain this year. 

"We don't really take into account the age 
of each other," said Daniel Jackson. "We have a 



conference itself. 

"This is the year for both the men's and the 
women's teams to really take the program to 
the next level," Hums said. "We have the talent 
needed, especially on i lie men's side. Overall, I 
am really proud of the progress of both teams." 



Racking up the road victories 



By Nick West 



When Dane Fife played at Indiana University. 
he said he enjoyed playing on the road. Maybe 
it's rubbing off on his players because the 1PFW 



the road," Fife said. "We are very seasoned; 
are just used to playing on die road. We play o 
half of our games on the road. I'd like to get so 
more home games to gain some experience." 

One of IPFW's three home wins was over a 
Division 1 school - Longwood. The other two 
were against USCAA Division I Marygrove and 
Division III Tri-State. Of IPFW's 28 games this 



i Texas. IPFW defeated 
on Jan. 21 and lost i 
iiM Corpus Christi, 77- 



Mastodons (6-13) got out to a slow 
the Pan-American Broncs. 

"The first two minutes we just Ii 
he said. "But we started stepping u 
and knocking down s 



at the starting spot a 
has been g 

In two games since returning to the starting 
lineup, Pompey has sewed 27 points ami ].;i a hi &gt;ei I 

10 rebounds. 

His first game back was against the Islanders 
of Texas A&amp;M Corpus Christi. The Mastodons 
held the lead for the first 23:57 of that game but 
went cold shooting down the stretch and the 
Islanders went on an 1 1 -3 run to close oul IPFW 

"We got the shots we w, inied." Fife said. "We 
were getting open looks, that's what we were 
trying to do. Wc just went through a drought anil 
they didn't fall. All In all, I was very pleased With 
e played. But that's a good t&lt; 



ct hookup 
i on Feb. 15 at Memorial Coliseum. 
Sophomore forward DeWitt Scott led IPFW 



t Memorial Coliseum c 



" Fife said. "We 
were just trying to protect the lead. We were 
tight, we were tentative, taking crazy shots. They 
weren't playing in the framework of our team, 
our system." 

But point guard Brad Pompey, who has 
returned to the starting lineup, hit four key free 
throws at the end of the game and the Mastodons 
had a defense stop to seal the victory. 

Pompey had been benched in favor of dynamo 
freshman Kyle Savely, who was hoped to be a 
sparkplug for the stagnant starts. Savely started 
seven games but Fife promoted Pompey back to 
the starting lineup. 

"1 felt like (Savely) did a pretty good job." Fife 
said. "Brad has just been playing so well and 
he plays so hard and he's seasoned. He's played 
college basketball. He had been playing well in 
practice and we just tried to change things up a 
tittle bit. I think Kyle has been playing well both 



Best said. "If they single coverage me, it will allow 
me to go one-on-one. If I see a double from the 
guard or post, I'll kick it out Whether it's Dewitt 
on the perimeter or ( Justin i Hawk (ins] trashing. 
I'll try to find them. I imagine they will probably 
try to double or front me." 

Fife said the team has worked significantly 
harderon defense in prat lit e since the Longwood 
game. He added that defense during the Texas 
trip was much improved over previous games. 
The Islanders shot 40.7 percent and the Broncs 
34.9, both below IPFW's season average of nearly 



"It's definitely improving." Best said. "After 
Valpo we worked on defense. Going down to 
Corpus Christi I thought v. 



ipfwcommunicator.org 



The newspaper of IPFW since 1969 
is now available at the dick of a mouse. 




The Communicator 



Sports 



IPFW basketball joins UBC 



Alliance would allow for 
easiei scheduling in second 

half of the season 





By Nick West 




nwcsMlpfmonMminlcatmoig 


It isnT r 


ally a conference. Inn Jl kind "1 works 


like one. 




(PFW, 


long with five oiher 1 nck|i. m(I. 1 1 1 




as formed the United basketball 








Inle i;,iiih's in January .mil 1 ehruaiv 




\ Division 1 conference play is in full 


effcil Hits 


ill wine will also give more iiiiluiiln.il 


rn ngnilin 


in players because awards will lie 


handed in 


weekly and yearly. 




, the NCM does not recognize tins 




l.ini e ,is .i loiitcri'iii e ln-i .in-.!- it does 




certain stipulations; there isn't the 




,1 cighi itlili.it. d teams, basketball is 




in included, and four ol the members 




transition of becoming full-fledged 








st vear or so the Independents 


have got! 


n together to discuss scheduling 



lehruarv time frame?' IPRV's athletic director 
Murk I'ope said "Haicly does .i le.nn thai plays 
in a conference go out of conference to play a 
game. 

"They are mm-ed on dun mnlerenee and 
they are focused on &lt; onlcrcnic play That's kind 
of the genesis ol the arrangement." 

When confetetn e. begin pl.n m e-irly January, 
it makes it very hard lor ihe Independent sctinnls 

io schedule games. Case In point, the IPFW 

men play seven straiglii load games and have a 
(7-tlav span between home games. ll'lW's last 

li ■ game was Jan Maud its next is Feb. 15. This 

alliance will allow each league team to play 10 
home and away games likely in the second hall 
&lt;il the season beginning next year. 

'Die five other schools in the 1 1 IK. are North 
Dakota State, South Dakota State, UT-Pan 
American, New lersey Institute ol Technology 
and lliiih Valley State. 

There are four oilier Independent schools, 
but none of them will join the alliance. Pope- 
said fellow Independent 1 nngwooii did not cite 
reasons why it wouldn't join. Savannah State was 
unable to be reached and. according to I'ope, 
did not return any phone calls trom him or other 
• uhleiii ilireiini. Northern ( olurado and lexas 



Christi will become full-fledged 

ler conferences next season. 

g and other Independent athletic 



games played would i t against the 28. 

The decision to enter the alliance, Pope 
said, will not hamper his efforts for full-fledged 



ends 






(MORE INSIDE: . J™'"™ 

llPFVV men split a pair of ide y as for 

Iroad games last week and th( . d j| ]LinLL . 

|a look ahead on page A9, Much of 

out of those 
meetings was the decision to give players 
recognition for their achievements. Player of 
the Week, Player of the Vear and "all -conference" 
awards were decided on. 
A regulai 



crowned tun there will i 



he said. "I don't think that U changes my focus 
one bit, which is to gel us in a conference lor all 
sports at the same time." 



[PFW men's basketball coach Dane Fife, a 
ritic of this season's schedule because of the 
uessive road games, believes the UBC is most 



beneficial for m heduling. 



It's 



e that our guys are going to get 



would o 

and being exempt." 

TheNCAA allows 2ti games per te.ui i per regulai 
season. If the UBC was to hav$g tc 



individual recognition anil it make-- scheduling 
much easier in the months ol January, February 
and March," Fife said "I'd say tbemusi imponani 
aspect is scheduling with this conference. We 
realize now there are some pretty good teams in 

The 2005-06 schedule was created by the 

previous coaching administration before Fife 




Matadors sweep Mastodons 



Young IPFW squad plays 
well in first ranked action 



&lt; :al State Northnilgec, ime mi--, I he Milliard Gates Spnrtscentcr 
with a certain swagger on I riday. lanuary '-&lt;&gt; anil left with a bit 
of the same the next night lollowing a sweep of IPFW in two 
weekend matches. 

[■riday night the sixth-ranked Matadors came out swinging in 
2(30-19,30-18.28-30,27-30, 15-91 victory Despite going five 



match with 21. He also had seven digs. 

The Mastodons slaved close in the second game, trailing 13- 
16 before Northridge started a run with the help of some IPFW 
misfortune. Four straight a i tact, errors gave Northridge a seven- 
point lead, one they never had to look back From. 

"We have to step up a lot on our defense and digging because 
California teams really control the hall well." sophomore Brock 
Ullrich said. 

"We took a little 
in each match but o 
it balanced the garni 
added. 

And die they did r 
powerful play from b 



names, the early pari of the IT 
(heir exceptional hitting prowess I &gt;.ui Rhode-. mdlssacKneubuhl 
dominated the opening game, helping Northridge on a 12-4 run 
lidway through the opener in put the Matadors up 26-16. 



giving the Mastodons a li'|._&gt;7 edge I. 



iio long to adjust to their strong points 
ce we keyed in on them and responded 
out a lot more," sophomore C.J. Macias 

jt, especially due to quality teamwork on 
ters Macias and Ullrich, 
s back and forth for IPFW with a Macias 
r by Northridge freshman Eric Vance 



► HIGH LEVEL: Page A8 




Conference play opens 
this weekend on road 



» Mastodons finished fifth 
Intercollegiate Volleyball Association and made it to the finals of 
the conference tournament before tailing to Ohio State. 

The conference has expanded this \ ear io include 11 schools, 
the most since 1969. 

From 2001 -2004. there were nine learns in the M1VA. Carthage 
and the Milwaukee School of 1 ngineenng joined last year as 
provisional members and will he full members this season. 
Central State joins the MIVA as provisional member for 2006 
replacing Findla\ who discontinued then program at the end 

Divisions of the MIVA were realigned for 2006 for the first 
jShondelh'l.'iml.ip Division will behome to 



Photo by Eugene Harding 

DROP IT LIKE IT'S HOT: Mastodon outside hitter Brock SPIKE: Josh Collins, an outside hitter for IPFW, gets 
Ullrich had 24 kills in two matches this weekend. one of his nine kills against Cal-State Northridge. 



s Coleman Division. 

Ohio State was tabbed ; 

the conference led by sen 

IPFW's C.J. Macias and Serd 



the preseason favorites to win 

■ outside hitter Mark Greaves. 

Sikca were Preseason All-MIVA 

► MIVA PLAY: Page A8 



Improvement is biggest goal for 2006 









■ favorable r 






of Division 1 tennis at IPFW'; 
Pine Ridge Racquet Club. Rivals Wisconsin- 
Milwaukee and die University ol D.iyinn will 
both take to the nets against eoai h I ric Hum's 
young yet experienced team. F_\pectations 



I ool im; towards the entire season, I 
a whole has set the same standards a 
"n e becoming a Division I program: a 



"We'll need some breaks, but every team 
needs breaks to he successful," burns said. "I feel 
thai we're right there with IUPU1. with the Mid- 
Con schools. It is just a matter of us showing up 
and doing 



I MORE INSIDE: 
Five seniors are key to a 
successful season for the 
men. Read on page A9. 



We'n 

hoping to be 

tough to be 
able to gut 
gave up last 



ding Irt'shmrii class, strategic and 
jirebensive conditioning as well a 
riemeof a strong returning il.tss. the 
the advantages needed to end Up \ 



"We're more prepared, we are a stronger lea in 
this year, just simply with the one addition, her 
in number two singles makes the whole the 
lineup better." 

Janek is not the only freshmen to enter the 
lineup. Gout nihei fre-hnien |om her. making lor 
an interesting mis io the young yet developed 

"The freshmen are all very young, and they 
need seasoning,' Hums said. "We have one 
senior. Beth Miller. She has been a great leader, 
with us all (our years. She works very hard, one 
of Ihe hardest workers I have ever coached. I lie 
freshmen class lias worked very hard, and she is 
a perfect role model to them,"- - 

Along with the freshmen and Miller, the rest 
of ihe returning players, who are expected to 
compete in the majority of the matches ibis 
year, are ready to build and increase upon last 
season's performance. 

"Our top five are pretty equal in ability," 
Bums said. "We have sis players vviih experience 



ime April. A finish of 11-22 
s disappointing, but with close 
juld have swung either way, the 



we were conditioning three limes a week. We 

added a gnrai ticsl in, Sacbi Janek, who is very 

strong in tbe singles position,." 



IMPROVE: PageA9 



Sports Briefs 



Victory escapes 
women again 



the half -seven to the fackrabbits and ti 

But the second half in each game was a 
completely different siory ll'IVV was outscored 
■).'■_'!! against South Dakota State and 42-33 
against North Dakota State. 

Junior guard Ashley Johnson continued her 



