Vol. 3, No. 22 



Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne 



"Barber of Seville" 
to be presented 
by French DepU 

"The Barber o/ SevUle," by Beau- 
marchais, will be presented Sunday, March 
19 Bt Concordia College Theater by Lc 
Tretcau dc Paris. The cLuslca] dcama, pa- 
formed In French, Is sponsored by the 
modern language department, Indiana Uni- 
versity at Fori Wayne and will be presented 
at 2:30 p.m. with a reception for the 
actors, open to the public, to be held 
following the performance at 5 p.m. 

The touring French theater group Is 
under the auspices of L'Associallon Fran- 
caise d'Action Artlstique of the French 
Republic with the patronage of the Cultur- 
al Counselor to the French Emba^ In the 
United Slates. 

Le Tretcau de Paris Is now Ihe only 
proressionul European dramatic company 
touring North America annually. Its reper- 
toire Is selected cacli season from among 
.signiricant works of classlcai and modern 
French playwrishts and performances arc 
arranged so audiences here may see plays 
in the same style as they are staged In 
France. Le Treteau de Paris has totalled 
over a thousand performances from coast 
to ccBst with productions of eight clas- 
sical and twenty-one modern plays. This \s 
Ihe initial performance for the gtoup in 
Fort Wayne. 

Ticket information may be obtained 
by calling Dr. Werner Manheim at lU here, 
4S3-8121, extension 239 or 241. 

'Breathless' free movie 

"Btcolhless," starring Jean-Paul Bel- 
mondo and Jean Scbcrg. will be shown 
Friday, March 10 al the Indiana-Purdue 
Campus as a presentation of Ihe [U Film 
Series. The 1959 French film, directed by 
Jean-Luc Godard. deals with Michel (Bel- 
mondo), a con man who models himself on 
Bogojl, killing and stealing For the fun of 
the affair. In Paris he disrupts Ihe life of 
an American girl friend, Patricia (Seberg). 
who ovenluaiiy betrays him to the police. 

"Brcathles" Is described as having 
no real plot, no real motivation, and only 
the slimmest pretexts for action. Yet, Ihe 
film Is said to gallop along at such a fran- 
tic pace, with such a high pitch of tension, 
that the viewer Is certain that there is some- 
thing momentous going on, certain that all 
the madness will lead somewhere. 

The nim will be shown at 4:30, 
7:00 and 9:30 p.m. in room 146. 

D^&gt;aie Club competes 
at national meet 

March Isi through the 4th the Indi- 
ana-Putdue Debate Club traveled to Penn 
Slate to participate in the 27 annual J.F. 
OUrlan Debaters' Coi^ess. 

The erent featured one day of In- 
dividual events in addition to the three 
days of "Congressional" proceedings. 
There were two nations, Canada and the 
United States, represented by Ihe twenty- 
eight particlpaling Unhersities. The stu- 
dents who represented the Indiana-Pui- 
due Regional Campus were, Mike Mc- 
Queen. Jeff Spencer and Debate Club 
Presklent John Juday. 

The team made a respectable show- 
ing in Ihts international event when John 
Juday captured a third place avrard in im- 
promptu speaking. This weekend the 
team will be traveling to Baltle Creek. 
Michigan to participate In the Bruin Indi- 
vidual Events contest. 



Activist Saul Alinsky here Tuesday 

Social acthftst Saul Aliiwky will speak ity Organization, and the Woodlawn Organ- The progmin is open to the genera! 

on the Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne Campus ization. a militant South SHe group, that Public and tickets may be obtained at the 
Tuesday, March 14, at 8 p.m., In the Stu- has been copied by black ghetto residenU O'f''* &lt;&gt;' Student Services or at the door 



dent Lounge. The program Is part of the In dUes throughout the country. 



Convocation Committee. 

"The American Crisis-Conflict or Capitul- 
ation?" 

For over 25 years, Saul Alinsky, a 
witty, well-read humanist, who makes his 
living from being a "professional radical," 
has been dedicated to the above principle. 
At Ihe Invitation of poor communities, he 
has gone into Inner dty areas and organ- 
ized the residents into abrasive power 
blocs capable of challenging and winning 
from the local power structure equality in 
jobs, housing and educallon. 

Alinsky, who spent the first two dec- 
ades of his career mobilizing depressed and 
apathetic white communities, turned his 
attention to black ghettos in Ihe early 
I960's. 

Born and raised in Chicago, Alinsky 
uses the windy city as the base for his op- 
eration. The Industrial Areas Foundation. 
Recently, he has established a national in- 
stitute as part of the LAF, to train repre- 
sentatives of the white middle class to be 
social revolutionaries in their city neigh- 
borhoods and suburbs, which he feels have 
been neglected by planners and builders. 
Some of the typical Chicago Institu- 
tions which Alinsky has built are the Back 
of the Yard Community (kiuncil, organ- 
ized In 1938 from Ihe polyglot, predomin- 
antly Irish-American slum behind the Chi- 
cago stockyards; the Northwest Commun- 



the nlghl of the leclurv. 




Saul Alinsl^ 



LP Campus representatives request autonomy 



At the meeting of the Commission 
on Higher Education of the State of 
Indiana, held on the I-P campus Wed- 
nesday. March 8, various intrusted mem- 
bers of the Regional Campus administra- 
tion, faculty and student body presented 
ideas and opinions on the subject of 
higher education as related to the I-P 
campus. 

The majority of the campus repre- 
sentatives listed their bases for providii^ 
more autonomy for the local campuses 
and for seeking (erminalion of dupli- 
cating efforts on the part of both uni- 
versities here. 

As Chancellor Broyles of lU here 
stated, adminlstralors of the campus 
"strongly feel undcsirability of state in- 
stitutions to offer duplimte programs In 
the sme locale. Each institution has its 
own place In the educational picture and 
Its own special abilities to serve the peo- 
ple of Ihe state of Indiana. Duplication 
of programs is costly not only to Ihe tax- 
payer, but costly to institutions them- 
selves. We propose, therefore, that such 
duplication also be s major concernof Ihe 
Higher Education Commission" 

Along similar lines. Dr. Donald Rich- 
ards, head of the language department at 
lU Fort Wayne, aired his views on im- 
plementing a unified structure for the 
two univer^ties boused on the Fort Wayne 
campus. According to Richards as spokes- 
man for the Liaison Committee of Ind- 
iana Universitj', Fort Wayne, both facul- 
ties of the campus recommended by 
means of opinion polls 'That the Com- 
mission on Higher Education for the 
Stale of Indiana initiate action at once 
which will lead to a unified university 
structure at the Fort Wayne campus un- 
der the direction of Indiana University." 

Such a procedure, while aiding the 



campus in many ways, would serve to 
benefit Ihe campus greatly in three speci- 
fic manners. Firstly, the unification of 
structure would decrease costs by com- 
bining offices and supportive services 
now extended through department of 
both univeisities. Secondly, the unifica- 
tion would allow monies saved from de- 
creased administrative and service costs 
lo be allocated for purposes s of Im- 
proved curriculums. Thirdly, the stream- 
lined system established through unifica- 
tion would result in an upsurge of morale 
among all persons directly Involved with 
the campus. 

Mr. William Davies, of the local 
Purdue chapter of the American Associa- 
tion of University Professors, indirectly 
■reiterated Richard's views when he de- 
scribed his own beliefs stressing the bene- 
fits of autonomy in administration and 
academic matters, and John Juday, speak- 
ing for the Abelard Action Association, 
comprised of students concerned with the 
current campus administrative set up, 
followed with the address given below: 

A Student's Point of View of I-E 



Fort Wayne. 



Whereas, Ihe regional campus was 
originally designed to be a feeder and 
screening system for Ihe main campusi 

Whereas, this regional campus has 
developed to the extent that students may 
complete their education in thirty aca- 
demic areas at Purdue alone; 

Whereas, the joint administration of 
Indiana-Purdue Universities complicate the 
acquisition of an education; and 

Whereas, the Commission on Higher 
Education ought to be concerned with the 
views of students; 

BE IT RESOLVED, That a single 
administrative unit be created to elimin- 
ate maslve problems now existing under 
this multiple system. 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, 
That the Fort Wayne Indiana-Puidue 
Regional Campus he granted complete 
academic autonomy. 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. 
That a student lisst-n, composed of stu- 
dent representatives from each Univer- 
sity, be established with the Commission 
on Higher Education, for the express 
purpose of promoting quality education 
throughout the State of Indiana. 




Chaiimea of the Higher EducatioD Commission meet vritb aiea 
educators, employers, and students. 



COMMUNICATOR 



(how am I MIN6 A5 
\ yaun MICROPHONE? 




/ 

VOLUMf, BUT nN£' 
DOWN THe 
DlsroRTaN... 



Letters to the Editors 



Abortion controversy back 

by Marty Martinez ,. , , ,,, ,, ,,,. , 



by Marty Mi 

For the past who knows how many 
Issues or Ihls paper. In semester aflci sem- 
ester, wc hnve been reading about whether 
abortion Is proper or not. Hue anyone 



the state until the child leaves home; 
5) A bonus be paid the woman for 
the risks involved and the 
suffered whild compelled t 
body as chattel and her self as slave of the 



ever questioned whether the state has the ^^^^ "*"""E tli&lt;^ P"iod of her servitude, 
rlfiht to decide such an issue? And if so, Such a program would lessen the bur- 
has anyone ever questioned whether the den currently Imposed on the welfare rolls, 
state hns any responsibility for the conse- Even though the civil service payroll would 
queneesof such a decision? be larger, taxpayers would, for the first 
Leaving the question of abortion's time in history, see that particular branch 
propriety to those engaged In the debate, of our government engaged in productive 
I propose that the omnipotent arrogance labor. 



Prolesl newspaper 

Dear Editors: 

We have had enough! We have been 
reading this sO'Called "Student Newspaper" 
for this last school year, and our frustra- 
tion has reached its peak! Are there no 
other available writers other than "Fran- 
ke," "Gilhe." and "Souder." on the "news- 
paper" staff who are capable of wilting 
articles or columns? 

Our intelligence has been insulted by 
subjection to their religious fanaticism. 
political ignorance, avoidance of the impor- 
tant social issues, lack of academic know- 
ledge and blatant misuse of the right to 
freedom of the press. Contrary to popu- 
lar belief, the readers of this "newspaper" 
are not on the elementary level of the 
aforementioned writers. However, the 
"Student Newspaper" insi.'&lt;tsupon publish- 
ing articles and columns written by those 
"writers" who have very little knowledge 
of the general attitude of the student body 
and even less general knowledge, them- 
selves. 

We have come forth to bury them 
and their closed minds. Their bigotry and 
intense prejudice against those many stu- 
dents who disagree with them are deliber- 
ately infringing upon the basic constitu- 
tional rights of every human being in the 
United States. We dutifully recommend 
that these "writers" be tried tor the in- 
fringment of Natural Rights of the Ameri- 
can people-an act which we consider to be 
treasonable! 
-A. Fischer 

T. Miller 

N. Jennings 

0. Stone 

Protests newspaper protest 
Dear Editors: ■_ 

Having read the preceding tetter earl- 
ier this week. 1 felt the need to challenge 
some of its authors' more ridiculous points. 
Their first premise was that the COMMUN- 
ICATOR was written "below their level." 
THisisa common clain and would have 
carried a little more weight had they not 
discredited themselves in that same para- 
graph. They made several noticeable mis- 
takes. 

First, they called Messrs, Franke, 
Gillie and Souder "elementary." Cute, but 



ridiculous. Even the most outspoken crl- 
ti&lt;s of Mark Souder will concede that he is 
extremely intelligent, as are Mr. Gillie and 
Mi. Franke. As a matter of fact, many of 
the columns written by Souder and Gillie 
are a little loo intellectual for the avenge 
guy In the cafeteria. Including me. It's 
obvious they're way over the heads of A. 
Fischei, T. Miller, N. Jennings and D. 
Stone. 

By putting Mark Franke, Scott Gillie 
and Mark Souder in the sme class, the 
letter's authors have publicly admitted that 
they can't understand enough of Scott's 
and Souder's big words to realize that they 
arc political opposites-Seoit, politically, is 
a radical and Mark Souder is super- eon.se r- 
vative. Mark Franke, while conservative, 
doesn't neccesarily agree with all of Sou- 
der's views. (You may recall they ran 
opposite each other in last spring's student 
body elections.) Alt three are certainly 
better informed on campus events than 
most of us"they have to be. 

The rest of the letter was too trite 
to comment on. 
-Mike Snyder 

Head Start in 
need of volunteers 

Project Head Start, a "pre-school" 
school for disadvantaged children, needs 
some community volunteer workers to as- 
sit teaching In the classrooms. 

Classes are held Monday through Fri- 
day 8:30 to 12:00 and 12:30 to 4:00. No 
college experience is necessary. Contact 
the Volunteer Services Coordinator at 1825 
Morris Street. 432-3170. 

Placement exam set 

There will be advanced placement 
exams for History HI03-104 (Europe since 
1500 I-H) and HI05-I06 (American History: 
General Course i.|[) on Friday, March 17, 
from 1:30-5:30 p.m. in Room 150. 

NOTICE 

Today, March 10, is the last day 
for Purdue students to withdraw 
from classes with an automatic W. 
For Indiana University students &gt; 
the last day for withdrawal is 
March 24. 



Isn't it funny how just asking a 




of the state be questioned in the light of 

Uk. upon Iteir Ih. ,1,1,1 to dcl.re ll,.l ,_, ^ e„\p|„„,y „„, „, o/^w^^ S« 
a woman must carrj' a pregnancy to full . 

term, it seems only proper that it Uke &gt;'"" afo"""!- 
upon itself the responsibility for the wel- 
fare of the resultant child. There are too 
many unwelcome children already who are 
suffering atrocities unmentionable for the 
sole crime of being born. 

My feeling Is that, if a woman de- 
sires an abortion and. If the stale declares 
that such a decision is properly its alone 
to make, then the consequences of such a 
decision should also be that of the state 
alone to bear. 

I propose that a woman sold into in- 
voluntary servitude as an incubator for the 
stale be granted the following services as 
her right. I propose that: 

1) The pregnant woman be hired as a 
civil service employee for the term of her 
pregnancy and compensated accordingly; 

2) All pregnancy related e.'cpcnsesbc 
paid by the slate: 

3) All expenses of the resultant 
child be the responsibility of the state un- 
lU such time as the child becomes selt- 
sutricient; 

4) IT the mother agrees to raise the 
child, she be continued as an employee of 



IF «£ftSeiN SAVS TMf\T 
UfE IS iRRftTlONW., 
Life Most eECoMTEOT 
Tb Repiv THftT 

REASON IS L\FeLESS. 

-t-B. SHftuJ 

REGIONAL CAMPUS MINISTRY 



The 
coMNUNiolor 

Published weekly by students of 
Indiana- Purdue University at 
Fort Wayne, Indiana. 

Co-editors Janet Weaver 

Mary Heck 

News Editor. . . , Liz Schevtchuk 
feature Editor . , . Scott Gillie 
Sports Editor. . . .Phil Hartmann 
Ci rcu I at ion Mgr. . . Debb ie Foster 

Business Mgr Lynn Bob ay 

Art Editor Mike Snyder 

Office Engineer, . .Dave Andersen 

Proofreader Susan Krom 

Photographers Jack Crance 

.Tom Lad I g 

Reporters Dave Hill 

Tommy Meneely 

Karen Gri ggs 

John Logan 

Tom Penzone 

Mark Souder 

Oan Motto 

Michael Yann 



March 10, 1972 



COMMUNICATOR 




Purdue profs to obtain emeritus status 



Impromptu speaker John Juday (he's the average-looking guy o 
right, not the dbtinguished one on the left) poses with the trophy he 
won at the Penn State Tourney Saturday. March 4. 

"-^ "TarlujF/e on Twinkletoes"^^^ 

by Marty Martinez 



A gentle tune starts playing softly 
as the lights slowly fade and the audience 
settles back into their scats. Suddenly a 
rip-tide of humanity surges on-stage, seem- 
ingly sweeping the Grand-Dame of the 
"household" before its crest. Hyper- 
loquacious grandma excitedly begins speak- 
ing In paragraphs as she scurries back and 
forth across the "salon" leaving servants 
and scions stirring in her wake. 

In an ear-blink we learn thai the 
cause of the excitement Is some person 
named 'Tarluffe," who has come to stay 
with Ihe "family"-to the pleasure of some 
and the despair of others. 'Tartuffe," as 
It turns out, is a spiritual Achilles with 
virtues (aecording.lo him) to which other 
saints can only aspire. But, every Achilles 
has his Achilles Heel, and this heel's heel 
turns out to be U'raptalion. All else he can 

Much to "Tartufte's" initial pleasure 
and eventual despair, however, temptation 
comes in various Corms: the homeowner's 
wife, llie homeowner's daughter, the 
homeowner's treasury, and finally the 
homeowner's home. And, he almost gets 
them all! 

Hokey? Yes. But,...oh. so good! 

Director Dan Cash man has made 
some excellent choices. The "ooh-aah" 
actions and reactions inherited from silent 

GERMAN NOTES 

PEKING (KFG) Die Nixons haben 
noch elnen aus^cfSllten Tag in Peking 
gehabt. Die Erste Dame hat einen Ein- 
kaulsbummel gemacht. Sic hat sich 
Vieles angeschcn, aber nichts gekauft. 
Dann hat Frau Nixon ein chinesisches 
Mahl gegcssen. Die Hauptspeise war 
Bein von Schwein-in 3 StUckcn. ^vShrend 
dieser Vorlinle hat Prasident Nixon Ping- 
pong niit Premier Chou En-Lai gespielt. 
Diese Nachrichten soUten ein Geheimnis 
blelben, aber es gab ehi Leek. Sie haben 
~ beim Vocsilzenden Mao gespielt. Chou 
En-Lal und Vorsitzender Mao waxen auf 
derselben Seite. Prifeident Nixon und 
Hen Doktor Kissinger waron auf dei 
■nderen Seite. Naturlich bat Herr Doktor 
Kissinger fur Herrn Rodgers gespielt. Dei 
Sekretar hat die zoologlschen Garten 
besucht. In dem Ping-pong Spiel hat 
keine Seite gewonnen-gottseJdank! 
-Ed Collins 



JOIN Iff 
Student Rights Organization Meeting. At 
Youi^ Worid Development OfHce (comer 
of Calhoun and Main Street) Thursday, 
March 16. at 7:30 p.m. 



movie days highlight the sham of "Tar- 
tuffe's" piety, add a mellifluous melody 
to every movement, and generally do for 
the play what bubbles do for fine wine. 
And, by the way. no one ever enters or 
exits: the actors burst In. burst forth, and 

By accelerating the rate of deliver}' 
of the lines, Cashman has wisely taken ad- 
vantage of the fact that the normal speak- 
ing mte is only about one-fifth of what the 
car/brain can handle. This increased speak- 
ing rate adds a vivacious crispness that 
brings the play to a high end before our 
low end begins to notice. 

Placement office 
lists job recruits 

The Indiana- Purdue Placement Of- 
fice has announced that four additional 
organizations have been added to the 
Spring Campus Recruiting Schedule. 

Friday-March 17 

National Guaranty Mutual Life In- 
surance Company (sales positions). 

Indiana State University (M.B.A. 
applicants) 

Monday- March 20 

Sherwin-Williams (retail store man- 
agement) 

Friday-March 24 

College Life Insurance Company 
(sales) 

Interested students are encouraged 
to visit the Placement Office (Room 105, 
off the Student Lounge), at their earliest 
opportunity to sign-up for interviews with 
the above organizations. 



rANTADS 1 




Wotk Wonden! 




f m Tw IT/ 3 


-1 1- 


f^" - /K a! ^ H 


1 - 


^'jL L¥^JffT-to ' 






_ J 


L/^ " ^i^-^W 






1 '- z 


El- f^r^ .^*^ 


3 




C 1 


1 il *" Tt'"'' Dlr OIL 


*^T 


uJU^SlL^^L. 


You'll ftnd the WANT AD 


Is 3 Salesman Chat can 


sell anything from skates 


to clothes. Try them. 


Ph. 7.43-Oin or 7^2-5111 


Your Favorite Hewspapera 


«h»ltaa-flMaM 





Three Purdue professors will obLsm 
js when Ihej' retire at the end 
of the current academic year. It was 
announced today by Dr. Roger J. Manges, 
dean and director of all Purdue operations 
on the Fort Wayne Campus. 

Dr. Pearl L. Chen will become an 
emeritus profeEor of biological sciences; 
Dr. Harold W. Crowder becomes emeritus 

Salin itddates 
youth group 

William N. Salin. a Republican cand-' 
idale for the United Slates House of Re- 
presentatives, announced recently the for- 
mation of a district-wide youth group 
to work in his behalf. He has appointed 
Charles Braun as its chairman. Btaun is 
an Indiana University pre-law student 
majoring in Pohtlcal Science and Philo- 
sophy. In the past Braun has been active 
In political campaigns for President Nix- 
on, former Congressman E. Ross Adair. 
Richard Roudebush, former Mayor Har- 
old Zeis, and City Councilman Don 
Schmidt 

Bill Salin, a local attorney and 
youth director for the Republican Party, 
has served the citizens of Indiana as Sec- 
retary of SUte. When he announced his 
intentions to ran for Fourth District 
Congressman, he stated, "I am running 
because I want to see more effective 
action In areas of urgent national con- 
cern-revenue sharing, drug abuse, law en- 
forcement, aid to returning veterans, edu- 
cation and agriculture. In the months 
ahead, 1 will be offering positive pro- 
posals in these and other areas which I 
believe must have the attention of the 
Congressman who represents this dis- 
trict." 

In reference to the Salin candidacy 
and the "Young People For Salin" oigani- 
zation, Braun had this to say: "Both 
the Republican Party and the citizens 
(especially young people) of the District 
want a candidate and a Congtessmon who 
is an honest, hard-working man who has 
the interests of the people always in 
mind. That is why I and many other 
young people are working so hnrd for Bill. 
"Young People For Salin" will play a 
vital role in the task of bringing this 
message to the people of this District." 
Anyone interested in joining "Young Peo- 
ple For Salin" can call Braun at 485-1545. 



profeffior of biological sciences, and Prof. 
Dale Wilson t&gt;ccomes emeritus profenorot 
industrial engineering lechnolog&gt;-. 

Dr. Chen received her bachelor's de- 
gree in her homeland at Hwanan College, 
Foochow, China. Her master's degree and 
doctorate were conferred at Syncuse Uni- 
versity. Presently, she holds an associate 
professorship In biologial sciences and Ia 
particularly noted tor her research in such 
fields as cytogenetics, microbial cytologj- 
and bacterial Immunology. She was on 
leave from Purdue during 1971 at which 
time she pursued research studies at the 
University of Slngflpote. Before coming to 
Fort Wayne, she was on the faculty of 
Albion (Mich.) College. 

Dr. Crowdor, whose tenure at Purdue 
covers 22 years, received his bachelor's and 
master's degree at Oklahoma A&amp;M College 
and his doctorate at the University of 
Kansas. He Is now an associate professor 
of biological sciences here. During hU 
most recent sabbatical, 1966-1967, Dr. 
Crowder conducted research concerned 
with the identification and classification of 
beetles In the Southwestern United States. 
He was also concerned with developing 
Purdue!s Core Program in Biological Scl- 

Prof. Wilson received his bachelor's 
degree at Iowa State College and his mat- 
ter's was granted at Purdue University. He 
is an asoclate professor of industrial en- 
gineering technology here. He was on- 
gaged in job Instruction training for the 
War Production Board during World War 11 
and joined Purdue In 1955 after serving as 
associate partner and Industrial manage- 
ment consultant with S. J. Fecht and 
Associates, Chicago. During tour summers, 
1965-1968, Prof. Wilson served as a consul- 
tant to the National Science Foundation's 
AID Science Education Improvement Pro- 
gram in India. 



Post Robbery 
WaterbedSale 



Econom)' bed 
High Quality bed 



19.95 
39.95 

AlantisWaterbed 2701 Broadway 

Monday &amp; Wednesday 12-9 Daily IQ-6 




CUNT 
EASWOQD 
MRIY 
HARRiri] 



MAT?NEE IlATE SHOW; 
.TT?.'"isr"iL Sat. 11:30 



Purdue- Indiana Theatre presents Moliere' 




r*^ 




Directed by 
Daniel E. 
Casbman 



"... Tartuffe provides such slapstick, melodramatic 
shenanigans that laughs can be guaranteed on a 
money -back basis!" 

-Marjorie Barnhart. T^ews^Sentlnel 

*" "...excellent production, magnificent cast, 
^^ mad theatrical wing-ding!" 

"lickfiU going fast! -P^" F""'. Jftumii l -fi i iM tt ft 
Fri. 8 p.m. Sat- 8 p.m. Sun. 7 p.m. Ras. 483-0922 



COMMUNICATOR 



SPORTS SCREEN 



A« I Soo It 



by Phil Hart ma nn 

A keg of beer snd a perfect record 
went on the line Wednesday when"Brock's 
Jocks (TO) collided with Faculty- Staff 
(4-3) in a Divlslan I Intramural basketball 
tujslc. Results of that contest were not 
avallabb at press time, but it likely was 
one of the most "'excitli^" scrape in the 
league this year. A big crowd w&gt;s antici- 
pated to be on hand. 

This week let's take a closer look at 
coach Brock Abie's unbeaten "cocky" 
Jocks. Before the season started. Brock 
was unsure of h\s team's potential. He 
had only three cagcrs over sbc feet in 
hcighth. with the rest of the sijuad con- 
sisting of an ace baseball hutlcr, a couple 
of ex-Ol's, and a handful of runts. 

So Brock felt extremely lucky to 
outlast Saucr's squad (now 7-1 In a 
double overtime to open the season. 
The next three games were breezes, In- 
cluding an 83-36 slaughter of Grlssom. 
In that conlcsl'alt Five Jock starter; were 
"able" to dent double figures. Farrell be- 
came the nrih victim but not without a 
nghl. Then two more comers were 
thrashed to account for the Jocks' per- 
fect 7-0 slate. 

The squad's leading scorer thus far 
is Tom Blackburn, a six-foot all-confer- 
ence forward from Churuhusco. Brock's 
unofficial staLs put Blackburn close [othe 
20-poinl per game class. The other 
starling forward is Steve Wincbrcner, the 
leturnine ace reeional baseball pitcher. 
He Is 5'll" and halls from Wolf Lake. 
Brock estimates Winebtener's game aver- 
age at about 12 points. 

Starting center Rusty Kane was 
nabbed by Brock a day before the roster 
deadline. Kane is a transfer student from 
Kansas State and stands 6'4". 

The two starting Jock guards are 
5'I0" Frank Franks and S'll" Jim Hansea 
Both are tabbed defensive standouts by 
coach Able and oresw-ishing the nets ata 
12-point per game clip. 

Super-sub six-foot Rich Yost is a 
graduate of North Side and owns a 
scoring average which Is in excess of 
double figures. Yost's best game saw him 
tally 23 points with a game field average 
of 85%. 

Purdue Wives give 



two grants 



Two Purdue students on the Fori 
Wayne Campus have been given academic 
grants by the Purdue Wives Club. 

Mrs. Richard Hess, chairman of the 
project, announced the grants which will 

S&lt; to Miss Christine McCarrol, Mil S. 
Inton SL, and t&gt;1iss Jean Martiu. Hunt- 
ertown. 

Miss McCanol is majoring in philo- 
sophy and physics and Miss Martin is ma 
jorlng In humanities. 

Bill Arnold, director of [jmmclal aid 
for the local campus, said that the grants 
are not restricted and may be used at the 
discretion of the recipients. 



In summing up his top six cagers 
Brock asserts, "All of 'em are capable of 
scoring 20 points or better a game. So If 
our foe keys on one guy, they'll get 
burned by someone else." 

The "hatchet squad" consists of ex- 
GI's Steve Evans and Jim Lassen, and 
ElmhuTst grad Steve Tobias. They are in- 
valuable, according to Brock, in stabiliz- 
ing the team game and usually see plenty 
of action. Rounding out the Jocks' squad 
are Jim Hall. Herb Purlich. and Steve 
Robinson. 

Why hasn't any team been "able" to 
master the Jocks this year? Brock gives 
four main reasons for his team's success. 
They are, in a nutshell, a complex, multi- 
ple defense, an effective running offense, 
balanced rebounding, and a solid bench. 

Who is the team to beat in Division 
H? Brockisquick to respond on this one: 
Barnyard Trotters. 

What does Brock think of the Facul- 
ty-Staff squad? "They are a bunch of 
wild old men with flabby guts and no en- 
durance. But they can tear you down, 
up, and apart physically. They only have 
one basketball player-Whitt. They're just 
a bunch of water buffatoes-they've got 
no finesse." Brock can make those com- 
ments in perfect comfort -by the time this 
article appears, the clash with those "wild 
old men" will be history. 

Late basketball report: Brock's 
Jocks 55. Faculty-SUff, 52 in an over- 
time Wednesday nighl. 

I The Classifieds I 

FOR SALE: Lesliecabinet with 12 In. 
spkr.S150. 749-2451 ask for Mike. 
WANTED: people to go to Europe this 
summer with wholesome Tours Inter- 
national. Any 3 weeks out of this sum- 
mer. Contact Jane KItson In student 
govt, office. 

FOR SALE: two American 12 spoke D.M. 
full polished wheels for early Ford. Nev- 
er used S125 

Cyclone portable engine stand $75 
59 Chevy 283. 3spd. Two-door sedan 
runs well-good body $100 
One set new Crane roller rockers for 
289 Ford $60. 
Call Jack 81749-1836 

Sun &amp; Sand all day. Suds &amp; Sex 
all night. Driving non-stop to Datona 
over spring break. Need riders! Round 
trip $35.00 Call Ed T43-6348. 5-6 
p.m. 

FOR SALE: "71" Bridgestone 200 
cc Mach II SS Scrambler cycle. Low 
mileage plus extras. Call Larry 743- 
7511-314, 3:30 p.m.-5 p.m. 

i-P cagers post 11-18 

The I-P C3geis lost in the State 
Regional Campus Tournament In Indiana- 
polis to lU-Kokomo. 87-63. John Powell 
led the scoring with 26 paints and Gary 
Trump added II. 

The Mastodons ended the season 
with an 11-16 record. 



"If you should get rubella and your 
baby should have any mental retardation. 
it will be Richard Nixon's fault!" ex- 
claimed Senator Vance Hartkc, addressing 
the pregnant woman on the righL "Now 
that's plain Ulk," the Indiana Democrat 
continued. 

Such Is the plain talk that is filling 
the cool air of New Hampshire in Ihb 
flrsMn-the- nation primary. Stan Jones, 
Mike Pfundstein and I with my Logan 
sticker travel ed some 900 mites to be in the 
thick of it, working for our choice for 
president, conservative Republican John 
Ashbrook. 

With stops only at Saratogo, N.Y., at 
the site commemorating men who fought 
for our freedoms; Plymouth, Vermont, at 
the homestead of the late great President 
Calvin Coolidge; Rutland, Vermont, where 
Stan's car engine died; and at Dartmouth 
College in Hanover, N.H.. where my dad 
once attended college; we plodded through 
(he ice and snow, living on sunflower 
seeds, chocolate chip cookies, red cream 
sodas, and dried beef. 

We arrived at Ashbrook headquarters 
in snowbound Concord, only to be sent 
right on to New London, another hour's 
drive away. Two others were crammed in- 
to Stan's Mustang. 

Our assignment was to canvass sev- 
eral towns in the New London area. Stan 
and 1 had New London proper. Mike went 
with the others to Newport. 

New London is a Republican strong- 
hold, about three to one, but they're 
typical Republicans. Richard Nixon is 
their president, and anyone who criti- 
cizes him must be deft indeed. But most 
friendly New Hampshirites are also pat- 
riotic conservatives. They agree with Ash- 
brook that we need a stronger defense 
policy, less welfare, no busing, ond fiscal 
responsibility. But, we must remember, 
Nixon Is the President. 

As if the frustrations caused by back- 
ing an unknown and Johnny-come-lately 
candidate weren't enough, the sky kept 
dropping snow on us. Hearing the virtues 
of Richard Nixon extolled isn't e.xaetly 
dreamy to us Idealoglcal purists, but It's a 
lot better than being stuck in a snowbank, 
which is what happened to us. 

Down in Newport, Mike ran into Jim 
Roehm's friend Pete McCloskey, with his 
rilm buddy, Paul Newman. In splt« of his 
warped political tendencies, a lot of people 
groove on Paul Newman. Mike found out 
later he thought the wrong person was 
Newman. Mike is solid. 

New London is also the home of an 
effete little snob school, Calby College. Its 
main salvation was that It was an all- 
girls' college. Stan and 1 covered it. 



CIRCLE K 



Proceeds to 
Student Aid Fund 



"Cool Hand Luke" 

witli Paul Newman 
Sat. March 11 student Lounge 

2 pm, 4;30 pm, 7 pm, 9130 pm 
Admission $1 adults, S^O children 



by Mark Souder 

Sunday Mike worked in Newport 
again, while Stan and I switched to Sur- 
apee, a lake and ski resort town. Wo each 
walked about fhe miles for the cause that 
afternoon. Another snowstorm hit that 
day. but it was only a "little" one-another 
sLx inches. Located near Surapec was the 
Shanty Chalet, the only place within miles 
not featuring milk, a great little place for a 
beautiful and talented young singer to be- 
gin, (though It's no Brunette's). 

The evening featured a church sup- 
per, at which food was mediocre and the 
super-squlshy film on relevance In religion 
by the National Council of Churclics was 
sickening. We walked out. 

It's now Monday. We arrived back In 
Concord last night about midnight and this 
morning came down to Portsmouth, New 
Hampshire's only seaport. 

Of course, while we're Republican, 
one can't help but notice the golng»-on of 
both parties. Our senior senator from Indi- 
ana has been a particular curiosity. This 
morning's Manchester Union-Leader carri- 
ed no fewer than four front-pa ge ad's for 
Vance Rupert Hartke. One was a bonner 
ad across the lop, where the Notre Dame 
football wins are usually posted in our 
papers. 

One Hartke front-page ad read as 
follows: 

"Senator Vance Hartke loves the 
United States. Senator Vance Hartke loves 
New Hampshire. Senator Vance Hartke 
would not give one ounce of New Hamp- 
shire soil for the whole damn China Wall!!! 
Senator Vance Hartke Is a patriotic man... 
You may well ash why do I consider Sen- 
ator Vance Hartke a patriot and a conser- 
vative Democrat?" 

(As a matter of fact, I was just...) 

It's because of two-fac^ men like 
Hartke, Muskie, Lindsay and Nixon, the 
'Tartuffes" of politics, that we drove hun- 
dreds of miles to work for the principled 
young conservative, John Ashbrook. 

We may get clobbered, but we aren't 
going to give up. 



Androcles and 

the Lion 




A play with music in the 

style of Commedia del 

Arte for children 



h 20, 21. 22. 23. 2A 



PRE-INVENTORY 
CLEARANCE 25% OFF 

PREPRINTED WINTER-WEIGHT 
SOFTGOOD ONLY 

HOODED SW. SHIRTS 

SWEATERS JACKETS 

SWEATSHHiTS 

3 DAYS ONLY MARCH 15,16,17 

lU PURDUE BOOKSTORE 



