Indiana University 



Purdue U niversity 



The Communicat( 






Volume 36, Issue 8 



Wednesday, October 19, 2005 



18 Pages, 2 Sections, Free 



News Briefs 

November 
speaker 
for forum 



Alan November, an 

education and technology 
futurist, will be the keynote 
speaker for "Creating New 
Cultures for 21" Century 
Learning," which Is an 



educators. 

The forum will be held 
Monday, Oct. 10 and will begin 
n Science Building, 



ACELINK is sponsoring the 



they improve 
instructional quality with 
technology. 



grants, lunch and table 
discussions as well as an 
afternoon workshop. 

The keynote speech is 
free and open to the public, 
but requires registration. 
The luncheon costs S15 per 
person, and the education 
workshop's total cost is $65 
per person. To register for the 

Fort, Continuing Studies 
administrative assistant, at 
260-461-6239. • 

Chicago 
trip open 
to public 



annual 

shopping trip to downtown 
Chicago, which is open to the 
public. The trip will take place 
on Saturday, Nov. 12. 

The bus will leave from 
the Williams Theatre parking 



Michigan Avenue 
Windy City. Nearby shopping 
opportunities include Ftiene's, 
Saks Fifth Avenue and Crate 
and Barrel. 

The bus will make another 
stop on State Street in the 
Chicago Loop at Marshall 
Field's. A third stop will be 
made at the Field Museum of 
Natural History for passengers 
who do not want to shop. 

The trip costs $35 per 
person, which will include a $5 
contribution to thescholarship 
fund of the Association of 
IPFW women. Reservations 
will be accepted on a paid, 
first -co me, first-served basis. 
For more information, please 



pm 



Flying high at midnight 




''■*" : --' ~&lt; ' f :' Photo courtesy of Gene Harding' spoitswlpfwcommunlcator.orc| 

SERIOUS AIRTIME: Junior guard Quintin Carouthers executes a dunk while switching the ball between his legs at Midnight Madness. 



When the clock struck midnight on Friday, 
October 14, madness began at the Hilliard Gates 
Sports Center. It was a madness that officially began 
the 2005-2006 basketball season and with it, ushered 
in a new era for the men's team and rejuvenated one 
for coach Bruce Patterson's womens squad. 

"This event is a griMi tipot'l for ihe state of Indiana 
and for the Hoosier fanatics to get excited about 
basketball," said Brian Miller, Director of Athletic 



Promotions. 

The event was Midnight Madness, an annual 
event held by the Student Activities Board in 
cooperation with IPFW Athletics. It has grown over 
the last several years under the guidance of SAB 
and previous organization president Erin McConaha. 
This year, Angela Grabczak took over the lead role 
and continued to improve the festivities for fans and 

Each year, the event organizers try to balance the 
entertainment and sporting value of the event. While 
the sport pari of Mi&gt; '■vrni Jum^ -lii'.liik c-.n h vr.u, 
iddition of four former Road Rules.mil Kim I 



World castmemhers thai heiame ilie cnlertainmeni 
draw. The four past MTV reality television stars were 
part of ihe touring Katile of ilir Soxes event. 

However, the cast rioted llial.ineverit like Midnight 
Madness was a first for them. 

"It's fun and also kind of nc 
the setup is so different that 



-wrecking because 
in, noting that they 



-Road Ruler Haehel Hohii 
iisn.ilK hold die ihallenge in a 
somesurlof stage "H'sa t lialli'iigc in kee|&gt; everybody 
into In constantly because il's in environment where 
you want to talk to your neighbor." 

► MADNESS: Page A3 



Fire safety increasingly important in student housing 



Fire safety has become a 
major concern for students 
wanting to reside in student, 



several states even selected 
September to be Campus Fire 
Safety Month. 

The United States Fire 



are focusing on regulating 
incidents involving fire by 
utilizing Fire Protection 
Engim 

housing i 

Engineering Program Manager 
for the Society of Fire Protection 
Engineers (FPEs) feels the role 
of FPEs is vital, as they work 
closely with project architects 
and administration. 

"Fire protection engineers 
use their skills to make students 
safe from fire," Jelenewicz 
•'said. "FPEs analyze how the 
dormitory would be used, how 
fire in this specific dormitory 
► FIRE SAFETY: Page ' ' 




Waterfield: The problem 
facing campus dorms 
and student hous- 
ing around the nation 
doesn't exclude IPFVV's 
own Waterfield Student 
Housing addition. Sev- 
enty five students have 
been killed in the last 
five years in fires involv- 
ing student housing. 



Students and 

STROLLING ALONG: 
Biology majors Seth 
and Jennifer Taylor walk 
baby Owen around 
campus. 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



HHtbAi-tiY: HageA4 ^^"— ^ ^—^— 

parents have a new child care option at IPFW 

( By Sam Win major and Jen Taylor, a senior MaungEddison.anelecti 

i .uHnainWnmmunii-ainmfn bioloev maior, are parents of t.*iigirnrNny n.-i tumlus.;', in 




IPFW Child Care gives 
special fees for students, 
faculty and staff. Even though 
IPFW Child Care gives better 
goals and fees for the IPFW 
mity, several students 
and faculty chose alternative 
options, including other child 
care facilities or the use of 
family members. 

Seth Taylor, a junior biology 



major and Jen Tayl* 

biology major, are parents of 

Owen Taylor. "Owen is 



The daycare 
there Is for hospital employees 
only. There is normally a 
relatively long waiting list, but 
it is reasonably priced and the 
care is exceptional. We have 
never used the IPFW daycare, 
but I often hear good things 
about the staff there. " 



Newsroom: (260) 481-6584 
Fax:(260)481-6045 
Advertising Dept: (260) 481-6583 
E-mail: contacteipfwcommunlcator.org 



Maung Eddison, an electrical 
engineering technology major 
said, "We do not send our kids 
to daycare yet. But we might in 
the near future. But we want to 
have a very closed relationship 
with our kids." 

Maung worked as an 
operator at Parker and his wife 
Ma Aye Aye Myat takes care 
of their kids — Theodora and 
Badriyah. Theodora is seven 
years old and Badriyah is just 
eleven months. Maung and 
► CHILD CARE: Page A3 

■ ► INDEX: 



Arts&amp; Entertainment A6 Podium. 



ES^ 







pnc« 



By Brianna Belford 




I hepubliciiiil\c(iinpl;ii[isahmiis|H'i]ili[in 
money on necessities when a cheaper 
allernative cannot be found. Hybrid cars 
aie slowly making a wave in the current 
automotive markd due lo higher gas prices. 
Federal and Si, 'He officials are looking into 
tax breaks in order to help those who will he 
unable to pay their heating bills. And when 
it comes to feeding ourselves the fast-food 
industry has created an alternative; the 
illustrious Dollar Menu. 

Fresh food costs are at an all time high. 
According to the USDA food prices could 
still rise another 3.5 percent from last year. 
In 2004 food prices rose 3.4 percent. Such 
a drastic change is noticed due to the fact 
that in the 90s food on average only rose 2.5 
percent. 

While meat prices have stayed steady 
during the past year fresh fruit and 
vegetables are up more than 6 percent. 

Hurricanes have devastated the South 
this past year decimating crops and 



increasing fuel costs making it harder for 
the fond to he delivered across the country. 

The fast-food industry has catered to 
the general public by offering bigger value 
meals at cheaper prices. However, the catch 
is that with cheaper food comes a heavy 
cost in calories and fat. 

At McDonald's a double cheeseburger 
with a medium fry and coke will cost the 
average American $3.50 or less. 

If that same person were to purchase the 
ingredients to make this meal it would cost 
approximately six dollars. 

The added bonus with purchasinga meal 
from a fast-food restaurant is that your 
convenience is one of the highest priorities. 
In today's society people are looking for 
ways to cut corners at every rum. 

Having an inexpensive meal along with 
the luxury of not having to take the time to 
cook and clean up makes the industry of 
fast-food thrive and survive. 

On IPFW's campus faculty and students 
can choose limn Suhw.iy. lain Bell, or Pizza 




Hut to fulfill their hunger. 

The health conscience person might 
order a Taco Fiesta Salad thinking the 
salad implies low-calorie when in fact the 
Infill •! caloric item offered at Taco Bell is 
just that coming in at 870 calories and 430 
fat calories. 

to Subway 

make a healthy choice but Subway prices 
can run you upwards of six dollars for a 
sandwich and a drink. 

A personal pepperoni pizza from Pizza 
Hut will contain around 780 calories with 
340 of them from fat. 

Not knowing where to go one migln |nsi 
pack a lunch. This sensible alternative can 
be pricey but healthy at the 

A healthy and inexpensive packed lunch 
might include a banana (average 59 
per pound) and a turkey sandwich (99 
from the local gas station). 

One must evaluate what is 
important in their life at the 
cheaply, or to eat healthy. 



- lunch 

double cheeseburger 
medium fry 
medium Coke 

i -dinner 




APPLE 

nutrition: low in fat, fiber 
calories: 81 (medium Granny Smith) 
avg. price: $1.99 lb. 



SPINACH &amp; CHICKEN SALAD 

i, protien, antioxidants 
calories: 225 (no dressing) 
avg. price: $5 per serving 




iJ ii iw ui .w yi 



Worth Weller wins faculty award for dedication 



Walb Union Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



Brianna Belford 

Managing Editor 

Aiden Bordner 

Advertising Manager 

abonlnereiphvcomnujnk2itor.org 

Justin Kenny 

Copy Editor 

JkennyOrpfwcorn munlcator.org 



AmleSarita 
Photo Editor 

n s j r k i «m p t w c o mmunlcator.org 

Dan Vance 

Sports Editor 

Courtney Eyer 

Chief Reporter 

ceyflrQlpfwcommunlcator.org 

Steve Pepple 

A&amp;E Editor 

9peppleeiptwcommunicator.org 

Alex Devinney-Stoner 

Design Editor 

■***w*eT)fwcon¥™jrteta'.org 

Kendra Cummlngs- 
Abdullah 

Assistant Copy Editor 

kat«lulah6iprwconTrriu»cat or.org 

Dorie Reynolds 

Publisher 

AflyncWjttprwcorimjnfcator.org 



Official Website 

(260)481-6585 



; appreciative of 
nand subsequent 
recognition. "I love teaching, 
because I love students," 
he said. "I find students to 
Ktremely interesting as 



Weller returned to college and 



Weller, a full-time continuing 
lecturer with the division. 

"All students enrolled in 
courses through Continuing 



, bringing s 
energy and their own history 
to my classrooms (virtual or 
3 face), and I get great joy 



Weller has been teaching 
distance learning and off- 
campus courses since 2001. 
While obviously an outstanding 



through writing to further their 
school, career, and life goals. 



whose 
i varied, nominated 
Weller for the award. Praise of 



regarding his enthusiasm v 



he is the author of three books, 
two' about revolutions in 
Nicaragua and Mexico, and a 
third about the modern Ku Klux 
Wan. 

Weller is a graduate of Duke 
University with baccalaureate 
majors in English and Sociology. 



studums grow and c 
learn. Weller, in his own words, 
strives to help undergraduates, 
"develop the critical thinking 
skills necessary to make wise 
mielluiUi.il, political, e 



EBEBSJ 



Halloween Double FeatUK 




Friday October 28 ^/0&gt; 

Walb Student Union **t* 




4CJV* 



/*- 



When: 6 pm 

Where: Walb Cafeteria 

Contact info: FWSPSA@yahoo.e 



2nd Annual Costume 
Contest 

We will be judging in these 

categories; Best Couple, Historical, 

Funniest, Scariest, Sexiest, MOST 

original. 

Free Food, Live DJ, and good times! 

When 7pm- 11pm 

Where: Walb Ballroom 

Contact: ipfwcampusscouts@yaho&lt; 



Sponsored by: IPSGA. Campus Scouts. SPSA, Studei 






Myaican take &lt;_ . i r ■_■ "I their kids without iimii;: ,ui\ child r.m and they know parents are the best in 
caring for their own children. In other worth, parents arc always looking (or better care. 

Mahmudur H llhutv.i .nul lasmin Halim.ui agreed with this i omcpt. Ithuiya said. "I have three 



Wds- 



r&gt; girls a 






The elder one, Sliarl.i. is eight and she i«. .1 student in iliirtl grade, Sarah is live and the last one 
is 18-month old Sarat". Sharla was born in New York while Sarah and Sural were horn here at Fort 
Wayne. They don't have any paternal grandparents. Roth ol them passed away lint they do have a 
maternal grandmother and she is staving with us." 

Rahman's mother takes care ol theit children as Rahman is in the nursing program and serves as 
treasurer of the Bangladesh students Association. 

"Actually our kids are not going to day 1 are nowadays because their grandmother takes care of 
them while we are both out of the home. Sharla used logo to MM W day care anil she enjoyed most of 
her time there. Also, it was convenient and close to my work ami school Bclnre I went to the IPFW 
daycare I did con tact several day care centers in Inn Wayne, but that was too expensive for US at that 
time and you have to keep your child lot certain days and hours," 

"The advice for parents on IPFW campus, what we did when we are students here at IPFW, we 

tried to work out our class schedule and work schedules in a way that one si Id remain with kids." 

Bhuiya said "If there was a time we could noi figure out to be with the kids that lime we choose to 
keep our kids with the baby sitter. We preferred to have the b.iliy sitter at our home so kids are not 
going outside our house and that's keep them healthy most of the time." 

Bhuiya explained why he pielcrred to keep children at I I'lW day care . "Of course that saves a lot 
of our money. I would like to say to the ll'RV students if you want to prefer to take your kids to day 
care, IPFW day care would be the best choice because il is close to school and on top of that it is 
affordable And they do provide good care to the kids." 




sixth annual IPFW 



k Legislative 

?L Issues 
"Luncheon 



Free for IPFW Students 

Free for Faculty when you sign up your class to attend! 



Tuesday, October 25 

11 30 am. to 1*0 p.m. 
Walb Union Ballroom 



Lunch will be provided: 

Lasagna, Salad, and Breadsticks and Dessert 



Talk with our Northeast Indiana State Legislators 

All 18 ST'our legislators fiaye been invited to attend- "~ 



Enjoy a brief program presented by three of the top local employers of IPFW graduates: 

Becky Teagarden, BS '80, H. R. Director at Waterfleld Mortgage Co. Inc. 

Sara Spinney, H.R. Director at Raytheon 

Dena Jacquay, BS '99, H. R. Director at Parkview Health 



Talk to our legislators about what issues you face in the classroom 

and how state funding could help with technology hardware, software, 

equipment, etc. 

Thank our legislators for getting IPFW off 
the bottom of the state appropriations funding list! 

COME NETWORK FOR JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 

Register to attend: 

alumni@ipfw.edu or by calling Kay at 481 -6807 
or by stopping in Walb Union 125. 




Ever considered working for The Communicator? 

Npw's Your 
Chance. 



The business department at IPSN, Inc. has two immediate openings for the following positio 

Advertising Account Executive 




c year absence lint this ti 



Robinson was joined liv her Road Holes. Campus I rawl cast mate Dane 11 Taylor, Road Rules: 
Semester at Seas' Veronica I'onillo ami also lando.i I neck of Heal Woild Philadelphia. 

The event began with the reality television alums holding then own Rattle of the Sexes game 
with 1 I male H'l W students l.uingoll against 1 I female I I'lW students in a series ol events with an 
elimination on each leant after each even I Anion.; ihe ilitlercnl activities were an ice-cream eating 
cunlesl. dodgcball and and a 'silt V, and blow' game. 

When the game was over after two hours of entertainment, anticipation mounted until the two 
basketball squads took the court to signal the start of the season for IPFW. 

It also signaled the start of a new era for the mens program under first year head coach Dane 
I lie I like the lact that everybody stayed I was excited overall to be there with my leaiiunates and 
entertain me crowd," said mens junior center Mohamed HsseghtT. 

After a warmup pn toil in uhii h I lie men displayed a variety of dunks and women impressed the 

crowd with their shooting skills, die activates began. Much to the delight ol Ihe crow,!, athletes and 

celebrity guests (who sat in on judges), die slam dunk contest reiurned to Midnight Madness after a 

■as players from the mens team that were participants. 

Instm Hawkins and freshman lakari tohnson joined Fsseghir 

... ...«. .a 1 .-. alu .i. t vvmni, s.iowcasitlg a wide array ol dunks dial saw ( aroutheis and Johnson 

advance to the finals. 

"1 was thinking about brining some chairs out, but the coaches said 'safety first,' so 1 didn't go too 
crazy," Esseghir noted with a brief laugh. 

Carouthers. who is well known lor his dunking ability, secured the win over Johnson and then the 
crowds' amazement when he jogged from the half-court line, look a basketball out ol the bands of 
teammate Brad i'oinpcv and wcuved it between Ins legs before dunking it. 

Following the dunk contest and ihe initial celebration ol I arutilheis accomplishment, a three • 
point contest took place with both the men's and women's teams After an initial round, the best 
shooter of each gender look a spot in the finals II was in the finals where freshman watk-ou Andy 
Si rood edged out Hilary III nil ol the women's team. 

"We arc always tickled to get in front of the student body and people from the school That's 
always a great deal for us," said women's coach Bruce Patterson. 

After the contests ended, the women took to the lloor for a 10-ininute intersquad scrimmage. It 
was ihe student body's first look tit a moderately revamped lineup tor I lie women. Ihe two teams 
exchanged baskets lor their lime to end the night on ,\n exciting and competitive note. 

"This year was a little different because in years past we've only been able to have four person 
workouts." Patterson said of the dillercuic between now and the past, I his year, they have been 
together all along. 1 don't know that there was as mui h anticipation as maybe years in the past." 

en's scrimmage also signaled ihe end of die long inglu and beginning of the 



long season 
most. "That v 
get down to business. From now until March, i 



lead for both teams. But according In I sseghir. it was the beginning that n 
s the point where it all began," be said "We are going in get rid ol all of ihe bull and 
c going to go 100 percent." 



. 



\ *- ) 



Photo by Brianna Belford / bbelford@ipfwcommunico 

i WINNER: Carly Ashtroft celebrates after the women win-the eating conte 



Campus m 
Calend 




ACCS Workshop: "Test- Taking 
Strategies," WU G-08, 1 0:30-1 1 :45 a.m. 
Sign up at www.ipfw.edu/accs. 

University Religious Forum: 

" I ranslVirma!iunal I eadersliip," 
WU 114-1 16. noon-1 :15p.m. For 
information. cal!16992. 

Physics Seminar: "Chaos and Other 
Complex Dynamics in Self-Replicalton," 
Prof. Enrique Peacock-Lopez; KTG46, 
1 2:30-1 :30 p.m. For information, call 
16306. 

Lecture/Reception for 2005 
Outstanding Research Award 
Recipient: Clark Butler, professor of 
philosophy; WU Ballroom, 3:30p.m. 
For information, call 15750. 

Chapman Lecture Series: "Aufhor- 
i/ing Sliakeapearc — fwentieth-Century 
Editing of the Plays," Prof. Paul 
Werstine; WU 1 14-1 16,6p.m. For 
information.call 16772. 

Campus-wide Collect ion for Coats and 
Toiletries: for 1 5th annual Healthy 
Cities Health Fair; collection barrels in 
cai.li building. Also Oct. 21. For 
information.call 16282. 

Medical and Health Sciences Research 
Showcase: KT 146. 3:30-5 p.m. Informal 

reception following showcase in KT 178. 
For information, call 15750. 



d College Midterm 
Celebration: KT Lobby, 10a.m.-l p.m. 
For information, call 1 6624. 

Saturday Sessions at Mitchell Books: 

"Special Edition Mastodons on 
Parade: TheBook," Mitchell Books, 
Covington Plaza, 12:30p.m. For 

information.call 16165 or 260-432-2665. 



for Oct 20-26, 2005 

23 Society of Hamilton Sisters Induction 
Ceremony: Headwaters Park, 2 p.m. 
For information, call 260^184-2233. 



24 Psychology Department Graduate 
School Noon Seminar: KT 146, noon- 
1 : 15 p.m. For information, call 16394 o 

e-mailyoungft~cipfw.edu. 

The Co-op Appreciation Luncheon: 
WUG21,]la,m.-noon. For 

information, call 16918. 

TheCo-opConnection: 
WU Ballroom, noon-l :30p.m. Free 
lunch and giveaways; all students 
welcome. For in formal ion, call Ui9IH. 



25 6th Annual Legislative Issues Lunch: 
WU Ballroom. H:30a.m.-1 p.m. 

For information, call 16807. 

Graduate Programs Open House: 
WUBalIroom,5:30-7p.m. For 

information.call 16795. 

26 Flu Shots: WU 234, 10a.m.-4p.m. 
Free for IPFW employees, IPFW 
retirees, and their spouses; please 
bring ID cards. $14 for all others. Also 
Oct.27, WU 1 14, 3-7p.m. For 
information.call 16647. 

Spanish Table: WUCafeteria.noon; 
bring a sack lunch. An opportunity to 
meet informally with the express 
purpose of speaking Spanish. For 
information.call 16689 or e-mail 
confortm@ipfw.edu. 

ACCS Workshop: "Overcoming 
Foreign Language Anxiety," SB 168, 
noon-1 : 1 5 p.m. Sign up at 
www.ipfw.edu/accs. 

Anthropology Luncheon Lecture 
Series: Professor Harroff; KT G46, 
noon. For information, call 16272. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



|-. '.&lt;&gt;;■: .■ 






October is national co-op month 



Kim isaho ilirl.ii ulryacivisdrof the Computer 
Information Association (CIA) and recommends 
students to do co-op on site- 
Diana Bums, director of Cooperative 
Education, agreed with I 






Ives partnerships among students, 
J schools, and the program gives 
students the opportunity to explore actual 
niipluviiicii! opportunities, which students .ire 
pursuing. 

The National ( unper-iim* Month Claiming 
Committee encourages co-ops to stress their 
community in vol vemcii I, ecoiiomii development 
aclivities, employmeni and oilier community 



On the ll'IW i ampus, ( h mber is the time to 
tell sluderils just how much ll'1-W Qinperalivc 
Idiic.iiion is iloini; and giving opportunities. 

Beoinjlnkim is.i |m&gt;fessoi I mm the Computer 
Science depa mucin Recenily. some companies 
in the U.S. try lo find iheir future employees fur 
the co-op students I hey know hetter about the 
future employees." 

Kim is Inierested in conducing researches 
re|;.iulini; Information Visn.ili/.ition, Computer 
(.rapines. Medical Imagine,, and 1 1(1 and helping 



ue .1 i nmpeiiuve w.ivy anil 

credit while working two 

ith an employer from the 

Burns said. "The Co-op Open 



In order to be involved in the 1PFW Co-op 
program, students need to lie currently enrolled 
in u bachelor s decree program at IPFW. complete 
freshman requirements in major courses and 

Hiiro. hie.hlii:li[ed ilie success of the IPFW 

&lt; "'■!&gt;■ ■ ii v. 1 .' :. program presenting the 

statistics fot the 2D0I -2005 academic years. 

cooperation educaiion Modems is 144 and the 
average semester salary is $fi,436. 

Of the 144 students placed, m percent were 
from engineering. Technology and Computer 
Sciences, 42 percent from Business and 
Management Sciences, seven percent were 
In. hi Division el Organizational leadership and 



I think that it is the three perc 

real value of CO-Op and Science. 

work for Students, employe 
provide co 

in class, an example SKTSSSST 

.... i. . i Arts and Scien' 

which is complicated |. „,,, „,.,.,, , 
enoughto be realis- and computer 

Science; Business 
tic probably takes and Management 

too long and is too lhe D ' vi *ion of 

Organization;!) 

unfamiliar to many supervision 11 

..... David hrbaeh is 

students to be prac- Ihc faculty Co . 

op Coordinator 

tiacal for Computer 

Science and 

Information 

Systems. 

"There is an old engineering adage: 'In 

theory, there is no difference between theory 

and practice. But in practice there is," Erbach 

said. "I think that is the real value of co-op 



work for students. In class, an example which 
is complicated enough to be realiMk prohahlv 
lakes too long and is too unfamiliar to many of 
the students to be practical. 

And a problem which is small enough for 
class discussion may seem too trivial for the 
methods being taught. Co-op is an opportunity 
for students to see the application of their 
academic learning in realism t iri unisiances " 

Erbach is also a professor and department 
chair of the Computer Science department. In 



establish 
;, enhance 
t and apply 



classroom learning t 

students can get more information withi 

scheduled appui ill merits in the co-op office. 



I the opportunity, students 



would start and grow and how 
this fire would affect students 
and property. 

They use this knowledge 
to design systems that control 
fires, alert people to danger, and 
provide a means for escape." 

Michael Koppes, Fire 
Protection Engineer for Purdue 
University also sees FPEs as 

"Fire protection engineers 
function as part of the 
building construction team," 
Koppes said. "Society has an 
expectation that the buildings 
it occupies be reasonably free 



portion of the cost of building 

protection features." 

In 1999, a publication from 
' e University of Maryland Fire 



for. Campus Administrators 
outlined four aspects of an 
efficient campus fire safety 
program. 

Thefourfacetsofprevention, 
occupant awareness. detection, 
and suppression are key to 
successful campus fire safety. 

According to lelenewicz, 
the 1999 publication is of 
immense value; "considered 
by fire protection professionals 
to be the essential publication 
for 



;sted 



adm 

keeping their 



housing units are required 
comply with the applicable 
state and local building and fire 



suggest several steps for 

determining the level of fire 
safety in a potential dormitory, 
suggests 



Koppes, meanwhile, stressed 
the importance of students 
maintaining the effectiveness 
of the fire safely system in 

place. 

it block open stairway 



alarms and, if fire is noticed 
or smoke is smelled, students 
should leave the building 
immediately and contact the 

nearest authorities. 
Cooking [ 



r left unattended. 



ways to prevent i 



YOUR 



MOUTH OFF! 





GREAT FOOD, GREAT MUSIC, GREAT FUN! 

WORLD FAMOUS 
DUELING PIANO BAR 



EVERY WEDNESDAY 



■, LI In 1 1 



75' 

WELL DRINKS 



EVERY THURSDAY 




FREE ADMISSION 
FOR ALL THE LADIES 

$175 



COORS LITE 
MILLER LITE 



«00» $ 2°° COVER 

With College ID 



■ON 



MONDAY 

BIG GAME NIGHT 

Monday Night Football on 6 TV Screens 
Pool Tournament, 1 /2 Price Appetizen, 

No Cover Charge, Bortender* Choice Drink Special. 

Official Team Fan Clubi are welcome &amp; encouraged. 

FRIDAY 

THE WORLD FAMOUS 
DUELING PIANO SHOW 7pm-2am 

Evwy Friday Night come to Fl. Wayne', hottest 
alter work Luou Party at Rum Runners . 



TUESDAY 

KARAOKE KRAZINESS Ppm-lam 

No Caver Charge, Bucket of Beer Special- 
Bud Lite or Mich Ullro $B per bucket. 

'momma gave you ond show your iluFf. 

SATURDAY 

THE WORLD FAMOUS 
DUELING PIANO SHOW 8pm-2am 

The Biggest Weekend Party, Birthday and Bachelor "" 
parties welcome &amp; encouragec" 
Doors open at 5:30pm for dinm 



. 




SUNDAY 

THE WORLD FAMOUS DUELING PIANO SHOW 7:30pm-Close 

Featuring $2 for every fingle drink in the houie, And we meon...EVERY SINGLE DRINK. 
Sporh Teams Welcome to watch lhe Sunday night game* I $2.00 Cover Chorge 

E. Washington Ctr. at Coldwater Rd. • Next to the Marriott 

www.rumrunnersusa.com 




Thi : : Communicator 



- Newswire - 



Wecfaesday. October 19, MOS 



News • Entertainment • Sports 



Bird flu 

drug 

ineffective 

By Carolyn Smith 



(U-WIRE) MADISON, Wis. 
- A University of Wisconsin 
researcher reported Friday a 



to how health officials would 
combat a possible avian flu 

Avian influenza has drawn 
worldwide attention over the 
past two years, and the World 
Health Organization has con- 



officials routinely ti 

in the United States who are 

suspected of having the virus. 

WHO recommended health- 
care facilities stock up on the 
anti-viral drug oseltamivir -- 
commonly known by its trade 
name, Tamiflu -- earlier this 



INK-l 



, HIV 



1 of Veterinary 
and the University of Tokyo, 
announced a Vietnamese girl 
given a "prophylactic dose" of 
Tamiflu after showing "mild" tin 
symptoms did not respond to 






"This 



the first line o 
defense," Kawaoka said o: 
Tamiflu in a release. "It is the 
drug many countries are stock- 
piling, and the plan is to relj 
heavily 



Though i 



onlyb 



ofoui 






tion there will be others. 

Kawaoka added the federal 
government plans to spend bil- 
lions of dollars to boost nation- 
al inventory of Tamiflu and has 
already obtained more than 12 
million courses of the drug. 

Tamiflu curbs the spread 
of the flu and can be used to 
reduce symptoms in people 
who have the flu, but it is not 



becomes pandemic. 

Despite this finding, UW 
University Health Services epi- 
demiologist Craig Roberts said 



." Roberts said. "So 
this one particular case it was 
resistant, but that doesn't mean 

all [avian flu cases in humansl 



there have been occurrences of 
other strains of influenza devel- 
oping resista 



The avian flu is far from 
being pandemic, Roberts said, 
noting the virus must be easily 

human, there must be no exist- 
ing immunity to the bird flu in 
the human population and the 

in humans in order to be con- 
sidered "pandemic." 

Thus far, two of the three 
criteria have been met, but 
the virus is not communicable 
among humans; it can only be 
spread from bird to bird, or bird 
to human. 

"The people who have [avian 
i acquired it, presurn- 
' ' is," Roberts sai ' 

s from human 
human. 

There are two other an 
viral drugs available 



flu, Roberts said, but neither is 
as effective or easy to dispense 
as Tamiflu. Adamantine and 
zanamivir were considered as 
potential treatments for the bird 
flu; however, this flu is resistant 
to adamantine, and zanamivir 
-- whose trade name is Relenza 
-- is difficult to administer. 

the resistance [to Tamiflu) could 
spread," Roberts said. "And 
then |in the case of pandemic 
flu| there would be no anti-viral 
drugs that would work correctly 
against the avian flu virus." 



Trojans prevail in South Bend 




Photo by Joe Raymond / 



HAMMER: Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis reviews the Southern California loss with the media 
Monday Oct. 1 7, in South Bend. 



By Kevin Merfield 



K SIVU-WIIII MMJllim-ND. In. I. 
nearly pulled oft rlu- impossible, um 

In what will be re 
games in (lie history o! ihe sKirii.il rivalry between total 
the No. 1 Trojans and the No. 9 Irish, it was USC who 



playing an uninspired and unimpressive 
■e quarters, Leinart played like a Heisman- 
n his final two possessions, throwing for 107 
d leading USC iii-0] on two scoring drives. 



night," said Leinart, who threw for 

greatest 301 yards, bui also two interceptions, his highest 

his game against Oregon State three 



"God it's there, I've got to do it." Leinart told 
Carroll. 

Leinart floated his pass over the top to larrett, 
hitting him mid-stride between (he numbers for 
61 yards to the Noire Dame 13 to sel up the garne- 
winningst 



j. 34-31, in front of a 

stunned and angry crowd of 80.795 at Notre Dame 
Stadium Saturday night. 

"We got away with one," said tight end Dominique 
Byrd, who caught a Ovarii pass in the hrst quarter 



Charlie Weis said." 

The Irish tapped into ever \ advantage they could 
before the game, trying m teed ot'l of the history 
and tradition of the program in order to "play like a 
champion." 

They held a Friday pep rally u " " 



I up LenDale \ 



:-yard-touchdot 



"That's tile greatest game IV 



attendance, including legends |oe i 
DanierRudy" Ruettiger. 
n the previous play lust like Ifudv, the Irish played the Trojans v 



fumbled the ball o 

r been a pan while trying to dive into the end z&gt; 

or." onto the ball and stayed in b 

Running back Reggie Bush won the game and have been over. 

possibly the Heisman, rushing for llil) vards and a Notre Dame I ai is cheered delit iousl\ alter In nan snrpnsed his players h\ giung them green jerseys 20 

career-high three touchdowns in front of a national was stopped and the clock ticked down t 

television audience. Several fans stormed the held, thinking the Irish had 



e spirit and emotion than theit. talent should 
have allowed. 

"The game was like a huwl game, said Weis, who 



t maybe Bush's biggest play was calling ihe done what no team could do 27 SI 
gutsy, game -winning and season-saving quarterback But referees conferred and agreed to put t 

sneak down by three points inside the Notre Dame back in the clink, clearing the way for Leinart s 



1-yard line with s 
remaining. 

Bush looked at quarterback Matt Leinart and 
asked "Are you going to go for it, or are you going to 



scM.itingas lliiiM'plaY-.u 
tost dramatic of that drive. 

The Trojans faced fourth and i 
;asonontheline. 

After Bush made a 10 yard-catch 
j make fourth down more manage. 
Pete I arroll called a 



Leinart was initially stood up at the line of seconds left and the ballon die his own 26. 
scrimmage before lulling to his leh, hot fell across leinart hauled through crowd noise that had 

the goal line after receiving a helpful push in the contributed to nine penalties for 98 yards, calling 

back from Bush. a slant-and-go audible to wide receivei Dwayne 

"I just shoved him in as hard as I could," Bush larrett. 



slow down the speedy Trojan offense. 

Notre Dame contained IIM as well as any other 
team during its winning streak, even though Bush 
still ran wild. The Irish held ihe Irojans to a season 
low in points and yards while scoring the most 
points against a USt: defense since California scored 
34 in its triple- overtime victory three seasons ago. 
Notre Dame also picked up eight more first downs 
than the Trojans, convened Hint' l't third downs and 
dominated ti 

"We want 



Religous freedom tossed aside 



Staff Column 

By Andrew Rennekamp 

UniwreCTJenSvania 



i arrested in his home in April of 
1995 during an underground religious 
meeting. Because Li's meeting had 



(U-WIRE) PHILADELPHIA 

ibeknownst to the general public, 

bizarre sequence of events has been 



unfolding in the 

within the past few days. About the same 
time the president was nominating his 
current lop legal counsel, 

Harriet I Nan Miers, to the Supreme 
Coun, the Department of Homeland 
Security was rapidly attempting to clean 
up a mess caused by the Department of 
Justice, led by Alberto Gonzales, Bush's 
previous top legal adviser. 

Last Tuesday the DHS sought to 
reverse a catastrophic decision made 
by the Board of Immigration Appeals 
in favor of the DO| in the case Li v. 
Gonzales. 

What began as an illegal Chinese 
immigrant's petition for asylum here 
in the United States turned out to be 
the condemnation of his religious 
practice, affirmation of the assimilation 
of church and state, condoning of 
Chinese government-sanctioned torture 
and a tragic precedent set for future 
interpretation of "religious freedom." 

What's must surprising is that the 
DOJ has been the driving force behind 



materials, he was in violation of Chinese 
law. As a result, he was handcuffed, 
imprisoned, interrogated and tortured. 



Knowing that he was guilty under 
Chinese law, which allows only the 
freedom of certain state- friendly forms of 
religion, and that he would undoubtedly 
end up in jail for practicing his religion. 



under the United Nations' 
Convention Against Torture. 

To this day Li's testimony is 
unopposed and, in fact, corroborated 
by the State Department, which has 
reported a Chinese governmental 
campaign to suppress the activity of 
unregistered religious groups between 
1994 and 1997. 

After hearing I. is case, an immigration 
judge determined that Chinese law 
against unregistered religion is an 



institutional form of persecution and 
ruled that Li could not be deported 

unless circumstances in China change. 



Immigration and Naturalisation Service, 
then underthe DOI, and the immigration 
board reversed the decision. 

According to the BIA, which also 
found Li's testimony credible, the 
Chinese Christian should be returned 
to his country because he cannot prove 



Instead, board members argued that 
his treatment was the mere result of 
his disobedience of government law 



It, is no wonder the Bush 
administration, which has been an 
outspoken proponent of religious 
freedom, would want to reverse this 
decision. 

The case, however, wasn't halted 
there. This summer. Li v. Gonzales was 
brought before the 5th Circuit Court 
of Appeals, which tragically upheld the 



-ersed it decision nn Ihursday. just 

o days later. 

Unfortunately, Bush's DHS has acted 
too late. Whether or not Li will now 
be allowed to remain in the U.S., the 
5th Circuit Court's written decision still 
stands, and unless challenged, it can be 
used as precedent in future cases. 

At the core of the decision stands the 
newly invented (and flawed) distinction 
between "right to religious belter and 
'right to religious practice." This idea of 
separation is akin to the brainwashing 
of the Chinese Communist Party, the 
constitution of which permits "freedom 

religion" in thought, but the laws of 

lich prohibit the practical expressions 
of those beliefs. 

Few religions that I know of (save 
gnosticism) permit such a separation 



between what the admin 

about human rights and the actions 

the DOI has taken. The Li v. Gonzales 

decision, as it stands, poses a dangerous 
threat to religious freedom even here in 
our own country. 



(formerly the INS), filed 

with the BIA to reverse its decision. 

Miraculously, the board spontaneously 



Arts &amp; Entertainment 



Wwtoraday, October 1! 



u 



Merrily" done right at IPFW 



r I &gt;L-p.irlJii(.-n1 just finished 



Merrily is .1 delightful musical thai tells the 
tale oT (mi' playwright's. I T.111L Shepards, sudden 
rise to fame anil his inability to ileal with it Set in 
New York ( itv. Ins fame 1 rushes his family (&lt; 



- Charley .iiicl 






1 twist, the play 

disintegrating .inci showing, backward through 
time, plece-by-plece how he got into the 

troublesome, and upsetting, spot he is in at the 
start of the play. 

The play the IPFW Theater Department 
tackled has been tailed mienl the most "helmed" 
ol modern musicals, a plav that was considered 
a llop, yet somehow had a tremendous amount 
ul off Hroadway success. Often young troupes 
iilicmpi the musical version, scored by Stephen 
Srmdhcim, anil fail miserably Ken with this 
history nt performances, the IPFW troupe hraved 
tlie opportunity and nailed it. 

The play itself suffers tin a writing level as the 
main charai ter. I rant. Shi-pard, is ver\ unliable 
anil hard li&gt; identify with. The other characters 
all seem to lack that something to make them 
complete. These limitations have nothing to do 
with the cast, who did a fantastic joh even with 

Director Craig Humphrey did an outstanding 
joh, taking what might normally he presented 
as lavish New York ( ity picturesque sets and 
instead made a minimalist metal frame and grill 
stage. The only props were a piano, central to the 
story, some 1 hairs ,md the incisional bar and/or 



The 




courtesy of IPFW Department of Visual Performing Arts 

the life of 



MUSICAL SENSATION: The two week run of the play featured a take 
a New York City playwright, Frank Shepard . 



the audieiue hum the action. 

The cast did a fantastic job, jugejing the 
demundsul singing with. 11 ting and the occasional 



his singing well and not missing any notes. He Matthew i'ederen, playing the second lead 

also showed a good range ol emotion, with only male role, Charley, was also a well-balanced 

one moment in the entire three hours tbal came show. He never came across as trying loo hard, 

across as awkward. but always seemed to he jusi right. He did a fine 

Ambrose's singing voice was strong, and could |oh playing tin- angry and a infused part, coming 

lie easily picked out nl die chorus when he joined otf as Ijorti led -up and timid, 

them. He also demonstrated vocal endurance as His singing voice was a little weak, and only 

every single scene in the plav included him. Only once did he seem short of breath during his 

at the start did he come across too strongly. difficult and last solo "Frank Shepard, Inc." 



cynical, drunk Mary. 

Amy Baxter dripped with bitter angst at 
the start of the performance, a necessary and 
entertaining foil to the saccharine-sweet (and 
fake] "stars" that surround Frank. Baxter carried 
the role of Man in* redibly. hitting all the right 
notes while singing .mil earning herself well on 
the stage. 

She showed the same vocal endurance as 
Ambrose, never appearing mil nl breath or synch. 
lugciher with her co-stars, the trio really pulled 
off a hell of a show. 

However, the must delightful characters were 
in the two supporting roles nt loe losephson 
(played by Greg lloyles) and the villainess Gussic 
t arnegic (played by latta Henry). 

Ladies first: Henly was downright sinister and 
sexy as she used everyone to power her way to 
stardom. Her mannerisms and speech oozed 
like a 1920s scdui tress, a classii al purr-and-hiss 
combination that hinted at bitch and promised 

Her singing was higher than the majority of 
the cast, which made it easy to hear, and was 
definitely a fit to the character. During her 
spoiled and selfish solo song, "Growing Up", 



way. He was the loun-dy. the h ir of the play 

that broke tension at all the right moments. His 
acting was spot on, even earning a humorously 
exaggerated "producer" accent. As the only 
baritone in the performance, you missed him 
during choruses if he was not on stage as 
otherwise the songs had no bass-voice. 

Essentially, Boyles was the piece to the puzzle 
that completed a moment, either as a well- timed 
joke, essential piece to the story or the much- 
needed bass line in a song. 

Overall, the cast and crew of "Merrily We Roll 
Along" were commendable and genuine in their 



All 1 he effort, nine, ainldillii nliv 111 |&gt;crinrming 
such a demanding, and famous, pnie paid off 
in spades for the troupe and they should all 
; proud of the quality they delivered for the 



audiences that c 



■ them at Willia 



Local duo share musical talent 



By Mary Allegre 



Rachclle Arnetl and liz llamman spent the 

majority nt tins past summer mgelhiT, playing 
music and confiding in each other. The result 
of one summer's work is a sound and style that 
resonates with strong themes of family, personal 
snuggles. m.Lhc, and tenacity, 

The duo. both _'-!. grew up dose to each other 
in Warsaw. IN lire two have reiently established 
a strong musical bond and a distinctive live 
charisma, Arnett has an emotive, sweet, and 
1 1 inmiandiug voice and present e, while Hamman 
pr 1 mdes niusii.il accompaniment on guitar. The 
duo loves playing local Imv-kcy shows, as their 



The Fort Wayne music community lias been 
positive and responsive to Hamman and Arnetl. 
Local musician guitarist, harpist, and singer Dan 
Dickerson said al Muni hie Fmporium's Open 
Mil Night that Arnett's voice was . ■'incredible, 
and the way she uses it makes die whole room 
stand at attention. When 1 hear her, 1 almost want 
to cry because ol the beauty oi her sincerity." 

Arnett's voice is captivating, as she seems 
to pack as much emotion into her voice as she 
can to properly get the songs leel across. Arnett 
says that Hamman is her "better halt." and thus 
her inspiration to perform the way she does. 
Hamman and Arnett play almost exclusively 
original material, bc-.t de-.intn.-d asc&lt;lg\ acoustic 
folk music. 

The two say they enjoy singer (,1 II 1.1 11 Well h'- 
simple style and "pure" voice, but also have a 
penchant for bluegrass. 

Lyrics tend to be intimate, at times pensive, 
proud, 1 ir tongue -in -1 heek I la 111 man and Arnetl 



have been through similar turmoil and feel 
validated b\ each m hers at ten lion to those major 
experiences and issues. I he first song I la mm, in 
and Arnett collaborated on was "Society's 
Condom." This song is about the struggles nl self- 
mutilation and choosing to smp based on societal 
disapproval I \ en s from "Six iety's Condom": 



society's condom.lt' 
or so they say. 

He doesn't give you what you need, he's 
hoi ling yon I here s something better out there." 
The choice to write- about such intimate themes 
as self-mutilation and depression is something 
that Hamman is proud of. especially since she 
has experienced such positive personal growth 



s lyrics for herself, but noted 



that it's really nice when someone connects with 
our songs. Being vulnerable mysell lias allowed 
others to be vulnerable." 

Both Hamman and Arnett are pleased that 
others in the community feel safe opening up to 
them about their own personal struggles. 

Before Hamman and Arnett formed their duo, 
Hamman had been writing about her personal 
struggles and accomplishments for years in the 
form of poetry. A relatively new form of catharsis 
for her has been turning her poems into music, 
healthy relationship Arnett has had a more formal background in 

having taken music lessons and writing 



music for years, as well as having recently 
nr.11lu.1icd from laylm University Fort Wayne 
with a degree in Music. 

Both Hamman and Amett relate that they 

feel the music they create is something special 

that they can both relate to, and hope others 

can too. A big inspiration to be part of the 

► DUO: PageAS 



Otis and the Ruf ies album review: Neon Fetus 



Otis and the Rufies have 
just released their third album. 
Neon Fetus on International 
House of God Records, a small 
indie label based out of Fort 

The first question you 



euio/eti. band from 
Wayne and Bloomington. 

That description probably 
doesn't help much, we could 
probably describe them in 
terms of what they like to listen 
to and it would probably be 

They listen to a lot of Hella. 
Radiohead, Queen, and Broken 
Social Scene, and somehow 
some of the stuff comes out 
sounding like the weird stuff on 
Pink Floyd's The Wall. 

According to the press sheet, 



This collection 
ranges from 

numerous keyboards, vocals 
layered several times over 
and doused in effects, quiet 
instrumental aggressive 



The standout tracks o 
this album are "Feed You t 
the Lions". "Fingers", and "V 



unknown reason they have 
been left off of the album, but 
it doesn't really hurt the song. 
It still flows and thrashes like a 
good rock song should. 

The bridge is the stand out 
part of this song, it switches 
from a minor to a major 
key, features harmonized 
guitar melodies, and a guest 

playful songs appearance on saxophone by 

even an indie Elton Bishop. 

It takes on an almost 
epic Broadway musical feel 



that they should have, especially 
with a drummer like this. He is 
absolutely brilliant, and pulls 
s absolutely spectacular 



accessible to the casual listener, 

Theremin-esque keyboard 
melody, pulled off on a thrift 
store Casio SK-1. The song 
begins quietly, and ends like a 
dying echo. 

"We Got the World" is also 
very noteworthy. Even though it 
is instrumental, one can almost 
hear the vocal melody over the 
guitars. 

This song has been known 



Queen songs, and then shows it 
how rock with a very dirty, fast 
pai ed breakdown. 

As far as the recording 
quality of this record, it is also 
pretty good, not outstanding, 
but definitely higher quality 
than one gets from the average 
local band. 

The recording quality is 
however, a kind of a drawback. 

are absolutely brilliant, but 
come across muddled due to a 

lai V ul definition. 

The drums lack the punch 



■|y distorted vocals. But, this 
is also what they want, this is 
what they are going for, and 
this recording is completely on 

This should not stop you, 
however, from picking up this 



With each album that Otis 
and the Rufies release, the 

expert 

and Che musicianship almost 

They are learning as they go, 
that's what D.l.Y. music is all 
about. They have done all of 
this themselves, including the 
recording. 

1 think that what we have 
here, more than anything else, 
is the proto stage of a band that 
has the potential to do amazing 




LEFT TO RIGHT: Derty, Joshua, Mike and Jim pose 
atop a sign with their name posted on it. 

other before their star peaks. be supporting local music, but 

So go down to Convolution you might have a copy of the 

Records or your nearest Wooden next big thing in indie rock in 

Nickel and pick up your copy of your collection, way before it 

Neon FetUS, not only will you was cool to have it. 



MTV alums visit campus for Madness 

■ Stars from MTV hit shows Real World and Road Rules hit IPFW's campus to entertain during annual Midnight Madness 



very similar. 

For Rachel Robinson. Veronica I'onillo, Lmdon Lueck 
and Darrell Taylor. holding a traveling Battle of the Sexes 
competition was old news, something that they have 
been doing with and without each other lor Mime lime 
now. Since each of their seasons ol the Ileal World or Ho.id 
Rules ended, the four have been on the road, traveling 

10 d ilk' re ni colleges lur a variety ol reasons, in, hiding [o 
hold the event. 

"We were kind of trained lor it right after (our season). 
Hui us kind ohlifk-rem each tune." laylor said. "Sometimes 
we'll be doing a g.une show and others we'll he doing 
alcohol awareness .md the nexi it'll he diversity." 

Portillo was the lirsi ol the lour m appear on one of 
MTV's two flagship reality television shows She was just 

11 years-old when she- appeared on lioad Holes: Semester 
at Sea in 1W1 layloi and Robinson shared a season 
of Road Rules in 2002 when they traveled to campuses 
around the country on the Campus Crawl season of 
the program with Eric (ones, Kendal Sheppard. Shane 
Landrum, Sarah Grayson and Kaqucl Duran. 

Lueck was the only Real World alum to appear at 
Midnight Madness | neck took part in the 15" season ol 
television's first hit reality series in J(Hl4's Philadelphia 
season. The four later were all part ol the east of a Real 
Umld/lmles thalletige called Inferno 11. It was the first 
lime the four worked together, with 1 uech and Taylor 
winning the grand prize wiih two oilier teammates as pan 
of the "Good Guys" team. 

Portillo and Robinson were part of the rival "Bad Guys" 
team during that season. 

Since that time, die lour have been traveling even more 
often. The traveling has been something that they have 
found very beneficial over the years. According to the 
loin, they are able io teat li manv iile lessons to the people 
iliev speak to ami interact with' Hut also, they are able to 
altain knowledge Irom those same people. 

"The best thing thai I have learned is that people are 



different." mentioned layloi 

Portillo agreed with his 
learn so much about (he American demographic that not 
inan\ people get to see." 

While each of ;he four speaks on many topics while 
touring, Robinson feels that (here are things other than 
those appearances that motivate audiences. Instead, 
Robinson says that the viewers, who saw each of the four 
on weekly basis' that draw a tot from them. 

"We all pull from our strengths io relate to college 



The 






can admittedly have it's drawbacks when peo 
interacting the wrong way according to Taylc 
lur me upbeat reality alumni, interai " 
besi part oldie traveling experience 

"I love meeting new people. I jo 
and hang uut," Taylor said as he no 
pushes hack his flight to spend niori 
a college he is visiting. 

"Darrell goes to a school and end' 
like a week," Robinson interrupted \\ 

Taylor just shrugged and agreed 



Whel, I 



here. 1 just like It 






COUNTER CLOCKWISE FROM TOP RIGHT: Veronica Portillo, Rachel 
Robinson, Darrell Taylor and Landon Lueck at Midnight Madness. 



No direction home 

■ The life and times of artist Bob Dylan 



John Carpenter's The Fog Review 



musical features foi 




Recently he has done a 
series of PBS documentaries 
on different musical genres, 
including jazz and blues. 
Newly released to DVD is "No 
Direction Home; Bob Dylan". 

The film, which was also 
originally a for PBS, follows 
Dylan through the beginnings 



extremely candid and reflective 
as he discusses his career 
and motives throughout the 
1960's. This, at first, seems a 



LEGEND: Bob Dylan 
reveals all in a new DVD 
Documentary directed by 
Martin Scorsese. 



traditional folk 

The film features 
from such icons as Allen 
Ginsberg, Joan Baez, John 
( :ohen, and many more. 

Fans of Dylan will obviously 
be drawn to this film, however, 
people interested in a pinnacle 
age of rock music should also 
check out this film. 

In the process of exploring 



Dylai 






shown. 
As the film progresses, i 

ins to make sense why Dylai 



omprehei 



look 



period of 
constantly changing, full of 
experimentation and enormous 
leaps In artistry. 

This is easily one of the 



John Carpenter's horror 
classic "The Fog" was an expert 
use of a small budget, limited 
special effects and masterful 
storytelling to scare the hell 
out of audiences back in 1980. 
Now, in the year 2005, Rupert 
Wainwrighl attempts to retell 
the classic and fails miserably. 

At the Rave Theaters, 
moviegoers exclaimed "There 
goes two hours of my life 1 will 
never get back" and "Worst f— 
-ing eight-dollar movie of my 



Other audience members 
d "I his movie is up there 
Fighter |the moviel 
Suicide Club" and "I really 






liked c 

However, when prompted, 
one moviegoer could only 
muster a look of pure disgust 
and horror at the idea of trying 

have something r ' 



island). 

I he mildly psychic Lliz.abelh 
(played by Maggie Grace of 
"Lost"} is luckily picked up by 
the boyfriend (Tom, played 
by Nick Castle of "Smallville") 
she ran away from six years 
ago. Instead of rage, shock, 
or even mild surprise, the two 
old flames go home and have 
sex. No really, you read that 
correctly. She appears out of 
thin fog after six years and no 
argument, just sex. PG-13 sex, 



explodes c 
the vehicle. After swerving a 
little, the kids are completely 



happenstance by the people of 




masterpiece Star Wars) yet he 



sex, Elizabeth decides to walk 
around at night in her panties, 
necessary it 



;. scary, but it is plagued 
the start with trite 
ridiculous twists of 
plot, terrible characters and 
even worse situations. The first 
time the movie goes south, 
sharply south, is the second 



incredible Selma 
underwear. At this point in 
the Haunting of 



burning pile of ash and taping long after i 



ane things and sloppily goes through 

• normal, such overplayed and trite horror the leper-ghost slaughi 

i the ocean at movie trick badly, it 



fog so thick it kills (literally) 
and lastly, having the overly 
intelligent all-knowing occult- 



No really, the Fog is created 
by killer-angry- leper-ghosts. 
They kill people. With fog. not 



of the town, they just dance 

merrily away after she kissed 

fog-ghost-leper-monster 



Il&gt; tjrftp 



Wallace and Grommit 



Wiih anim.iictl tilm- hn riming 
older viewers, 'Wallace a 
raises ihe bar 10 a whole new level. 

A fulMength movie crafted entirely oui of clay, an Inventor 
named Wallace and his dog (.mmil, a "Were H.ibhit," and Brilish 
humor. Who could ask for more?' Ine Curse of the Were Rabbit" 
Is set in a small European town where the annual vegetable 
the townspeople lend 10 (heir 
the starring duo, Wallace and 
of pests, or rabbits. 

All of Wallace's creative inventions add a unique substance 
to the movie. fvervthing from his bed dropping him right into 
position in from "(his hreakl,i-i in die morning to a machine that 
sucks rabbits right out of the ground at .1 high level of Hf'M (rabbits 
per minute). Ihe 11 lm 1- -piinWed lintisti hiiinoi dial never fails to 
bring about a chuckle. 

Sooner or later, tin 
mysterious Wcre-Rabbi 

the vegetable gardens. The action begins and the duo s 
solve the eerie mystery. 

As a whole, the film was obviously deluately crafted both 
artistically and with its well planned out storyline. I lumor, intense 
action, spooky scenes, and even a hit of a love story shines through 
Aardman Animation's Wallace and dromit movie. 

"The Curse ol the Were Hahhit stands out f'r 1 other animated 

such as "Finding Nemo," and the upturning "&lt; hicken Little" with 
its clay instead of digital prodiu mm it is a truly an original must- 
see liioMe that, "t iiinrv. the v, hole l.iitllK Mil enjOV. . .,— _, ,,-_ ..,„ ..-,„,- -r, , 1 r ,, , 

it., .hose »ho n,,^ .be Me. . he, f o,„ ,he three shorter ANOTHER WB MOVIE: The long awaited full-length 

Wallace and Gromii films put out a white ago, "A Grand Day Out, Wallace and Grommit film comes to America. 

"The Wrong Irousers." and "A (lose Shave." 




coutesy of Warner B 



s Entertainment 



local community has been 
their shared family history. A 
group of their family members 
have been gathering for years 
to play blucgrass music every 
weekend. 

Hamman and Arnett have 
no formal plans for their duo, 
as they are just happy to 
together In create music and 
part of the Fort Wayne scene 

The two have no website 
MySpai epage.soom 
out an opportunity to see 
duo perform live to experie: 
the intimacy and spontani 
ol each unique performance 

Open Mic Nights at Munc 
Emporium 1 



n Anthony Blvd. 
are good places to catch a live 
show from this talented pair of 

in the Fort Wayne community 
seeking to share a personal 
musical experience with locals. 




DYNAMIC DUO: Rachelle Arnett and Liz Hamman toured together over the sum 
mer. Arnett is pictured above performing at the Munchie Emporium on Broad- 
way. 




How would you like to meet. 



♦Co-op Alumni 
♦Co-op Students 



♦Co-op Faculty 
♦Co-op Employers 



Explore your options! Listen while co-op speakers tell you how 

important it is to gain hands-on experience in your major by 

doing a paid co-op or internship. 

Ask Co-op students what they do, 
what they learn, and what they earn! 

Co-op employers are invited to promote their 
Co-op programs to potential Co-op candidates. 

The Co-op Connection 

Monday, October 24 
Walb Ballroom 
Noon- 1:30 p.m- 

Free Lunch 

Sponsored by the Schools of Arts &amp; Sciences. Business &amp; Management Sciences, 

Engineering. Technology. &amp; Computer Science, 

the Department of Accounting &amp; Finance, and 

the Cooperative Education Office 



Fall season 
film preview 



By Tiffany Dirig 



So, you're sitting there on a Friday night with nothing to do (it's 
ok — happens to me all die time.) You're bored stiff because, let's 
face it, there's nothing good on TV on Fridays. 

Fear not, I am here to help. I've managed to round-up ten 
movies that are coming out in the next month or so — five look 









the ones 1 think look inane (or vice versa}, I'm sorry. I'm just 
putting the information out there. Now then, on to the first two. 
These actually came out on Sept. 30 (I know; I'm a slacker.) The 
first one blows my mind. 

the preview, I almost peed my pants from laughing. 



I've never heard of (Nathan Pillion, Gina Torres, and Chiwetel 
Ejiofor) was directed by none other than Joss Whedon, the 
"mastermind" behind "Buffy" the TV show. It's about this group of 
rag-tag heroes that have survived ,i galactic civil war (it takes place 
500 years in the future). They have to keep the ship (shockingly 
named "Serenity") away 

Friends of minp from ? %vicked bount y hunler 



mine 



passenger. Wow, 



single 



will be dragged to [he Oscar, i hope v 

his speech prepared. (Pardon 
me whilst I wipe away a tear of 
amusement). 

Next up is David Cronenberg's 
"A History of Violence." Starring 

ligent enough to y,isg°,. M °" ensen D ?¥"$£ *■ 

3 3 Rings ) Mana Bello (Coyote 



"North Country." 
Although, lm intel- 



be decimated by The attention, however, of some 
individuals with which 

Rock's "Doom". Mortensen's character would 

prefernotto interact. Apparently. 
this flick got some bad press at 
Cannes and with the European 
press. U.S. critics, though, are 
saying this is supposed to be 
of the year's best. I think the world of Harris, so. it's a winning 



oforn 



. Thisvt 



n the 7" 1 , "In Her Shoe-, " starring I inn 



Collette (who is seriously underrated) and Cameron Diaz (who i: 
seriously overrated,) opens. Now, keep in mind I'm a chick. ..so ot 
course, there's a "girl movie" on the list. 

Adapted from the bestselling novel by Jennifer Weiner of the 
same name, "In Her Shoes" is the stun of the often times strained 
relationship of sisters Collette i'Sisth Sense") and Diaz (do I really 
need to put a movie title here? I think it looks so...I don't even 
want to say it. ..cute. I really hope this launches Collette into 
"household-name'' status. She truly is gifted). 

Next week, on the 14 ,h , a couple of stinkers are opening: "The 
Fog" {anything that's not Hitchcock and has a title like that has 

she's talented. I don't 
the business because she 
knew someone who knew someone who knew someone's butt to 
kiss. Anyway. The movies about a guy (Orlando Bloom — anyone 
remember "Pirates of the Caribbean". ..1 do) who travels back 
to Kentucky for his dad's funeral and during his trip he meets a 
"charming" flight attendant (Dunst). 

It could be fun; but anything with her at the wheel and I try to go 
the other direction. I don't even want to talk about this next one. 
"The Fog," starring Tom Welling r'Smallville") Maggie Grace (the 
blonde girl from "Lost") and Selma Blair (grr, I hate her too. . .by the 
way, she was in "Hellboy ") is about a ship carrying a leper colony 



(I'm serious) tl 
Now, in the 1&gt; 



doesn't it? The21" 



s purposely v. 



•twith mixed feelings. 1 
mine will be dragged to "North t mm try." Although. I'm intelligent 
enough to know that Charlize Theron's sales will be decimated by 
The Rock's "Doom." Theron, supposedly, is on the way to another 
Oscar because of her performance in "North Country's" fictional 
adaptation of the first major sexual harassment case in the U.S. 
started by a female miner. 

Also starring Frances McDormand ("Fargo") leremy Renner 
("S.W.A.T.") and Woody Harrelson ("Natural Born Killers") the 
previews (o this one gives me goose bumps. The only thing I worry 
about is Theron's ability. I thought she was grossly undeserving 
of her Oscar for "Monster." She made Aileen Wuomos look like a 
caricature. But anytime you get ugly, you get Oscar. 

Back to "Doom." Alongside The Rock are Rosamund Pike ("Die 
Another Day") and Karl Urban ("The Bourne Supremecy"). In 
2145, these Marines are to fight a group of monsters on Phobos 
(one of Mars' moons) that are trying to penetrate their base after 
a horribly failed experiment. Let me buy my tickets now. Coming 
out on the 28'" is the highly-anticipated, much-hyped sequel to 
"The Mask of Zorro," "The Legend of Zorro." Now, I ask you, why 
did it take the important movie-making people seven years to 
decide to make a sequel!? I'm at a loss. 

The ri 
ack in t 
and his hot-to-trot wife, Elena (who can handle r 
sword fight). Zorro must come out of "retirement" when a threat 
is posed to California's pending statehood. The plot may be flimsy, 
but it'll sure be a fun show! There'll be something for everyone. 
Explosions; sword fights; Banderas in leather (I'm especially happy 
about that). What more could you possibly ask for? 

Also out on the 28 ,h is— and this is just so sad— "Saw II." I'll be 
perfectly honest with you and say that the first scared the crap out 
of me. But a sequel starring Donnie Wahlberg (my least favorite 
New Kid) cannot be good. It's also got Beverley Mitchell in it, 
for crying out loud. She annoys me on "7" 1 Heaven" (don't laugh, 
sometimes it's the only thing on), so she's bound to irritate me 
when she's larger than life on the screen! The storyline seems a bit 
lacking too. "Jigsaw," the killer from the original, is back. 

This time he has eight hopeless saps locked up playing his 
sadistic games in order to stay on this side of the grave. Wahlberg 
plays the detective to continue the work of the actors from the 
original who knew better than to -i.it in this crappy sequel. 

b 4 th of November gives us 
s that fought in Operation: 
Desert Storm. Based on the memoirs of Marine Anthony "Swoff" 
Swofford, this movie promises to deal with a range of topics from 
Swoff 's boredom to losing his girlfriend to gelling shot at. 

lake Gyllenhaal ("The Good Girl") stars as Swoff. As a devoted 
fan, I have high hopes for him. This may also be an opportunity 
for Jamie Foxx ti 

also have to say, I don't just know all this stuff; International N 
Database (www. imdb.com ) helps me out a great deal. They give 
me the premise, I make the judgment. Follow it or not, it makes 



Perfect slice of Ireland in Indianapolis 



By Andrew C. Hoover 



visit Indianapolis, visit the a.kld.ieji l|mmounced Claw-DA). 

located on Merirli, nd South M ivoi in ihf I le.in oflndianapolis. 

The strange-named Claddagh has a story, as anything wiili such 
unusual n.mivs niiyhl. Send. .111 cuelli'm manager, told the story 
of the (. ladii^h, a Gaelic symbol which means "Love, friendship 
and loyalty." Thai name is also shared l&gt;v a fishing village near 
Galway City in t euiral Ireland ih.n was Immded in 1232 AD on the 
Gal way River. 

When you first enter the Claddagh. you are treated to rich 
and dark woodwork, a friendly and [in mi pi staff, tnd a round bar 
complete with all die Maples of enod IrMi drinking; Guinness, 
Jameson's, liass. and Harp Larger. 

Taking a seat at a booth, on a short stool or at one of the tall 
barrel- tables, the somber lighting and rich wood tones draws 
you right in. In no time, you will have an Imperial, which is the 
traditional 20-nuruu Irish I'im of ihe Dark (Guinness) in Front of 
you, poured with love. The friendly and uuick staff can suggest 



priced just right. 

Like a good Irish Pub. football wa 
1 football. A glance at the n 



I the TV. only m this case 

II shows many great food 
o decide. Scott was quick 

\ the House Specials If you don't 
have time for dinner, the desserts are worth taking a moment 
for. The Baked Brie with Rasphemes and the Hailey's Cheesecake 
alone are worth the stop. 

And if it is late, and face it, you are not here for the food, the 
drinks are fantastic. An exhaustive menu of Tine, aged scotches, 
cigars, and malt-whiskeys are treats to the gentleman and lady of 
the evening, but if you are looking tor a good lime in adown-and- 
diny Irish way, the ( ar-Humlis are just the riglu price and just the 
right mix. Have the bartendet whip you up an Irish Deadlock or 
Irish Hag. layered perlecily, or maybe stay a little smoother and 
eiijo-, perleclK layered pinls of ( aimness .mil \\.\-s. t.uimiess and 
Harp. Guinness and Blue Moon or even Guinness and t hampagne 
Personally, the Irish I lag was a rare [real and made just right. 

I he Claddagh is a great place to visit in Indianapolis, no matter 
what mood you are in. If you arc on a dale with a special someone, 
the rich colors and lighting, tpiiei (until alter 111 p.m.) atmosphere 
and a touch of class i-. perfect for a romantic night on the town. 

If this is a trip to get rowdy, the Car Homlis and other shots will 
chase away your worries and bring out ihe Irish rowdy in all of us, 
while the excellent waiting-and-hartcnding staff help shepherd 




von away « 






Courtesy of Claddagh Pub / tontact^ipfweommunkator.org 

UB: A view from the Claddagh Pub in India- 



Tim Burton's Corpse Bride 

■ New Burton movie a rehashing of Nightmare Before Christmas 



Burton's image. 

The scripting seems extremely ru 
characters make life-changing decisi 
seemingly no reason except to move the plot 



lust in time for Halloween is Tim Burton's, 
"Corpse Bride" as Burton revisits the stop 
animation process used in "The Nightmare 
before Christmas". 

Johnny Depp voices the character of Victor 
Van Dort, a shy and jittery lellinv who is having 
second thoughts about hi-, arranged marriage 
to Victoria Fvergloi. voiced b\ l-.mily Watson, 
Through a series of comical mishaps, Victor finds 
himself wed to a dead woman voiced by Helena 



: three find themselves caught in 
1 spans a dreary townscape 



"Corpse Bride" is definitely a charming movie 
that will provide an hour worth of liglu heated 
entertain men 1 iaiiMil films such as" Night 111. ire" 
and "Beetlejuice" should enjoy the film or at least 
teel .in though ihe\ are on cer\ familiar territory, 
"" prove that Burton plays it a 



love little too safe. 



Nightmare before Christmas." The a 

just as ama/iiig as Nightmare." il not better. 

The character designs will seem very familiar 
to those who have seen Burton's previous stop 




perhaps (he evcepikin of the brilliant film. "Big 
Fish". "Corpse Pride" definitely does not take 
any chances which may turn off some viewers 
who are not die-hard fans of Burton's previous 
irks. "Corpse Bride" is in no way a bad film, 
eems very rushed and a bit too 



Ever considered working for The Communicator? 

ov/s Your 
ance. 

The editorial department at The Communicator currently has an opening for the following position(s). 

Arts &amp; Entertainment Editor 



Applicants must be a currently enrolled stude 
'ested in joining this excellent career-defining a 



ng the period of employment 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 




Initeck: 

Art and Education 







LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



Join our warehouse team in a fun, friendly environment. 

■ Work part-time now/full-time in the summer. 

■ Duties include order filling. »» *».» „....,,;., m* „ P » m„, 

■ Starting at $7.50/hour. 

United Art and Education • Monday - Friday 9am-5pm ♦ 4413 Airport Expressway 



DON'T BE A^ 
SUCKER (%^ 




KSPErl 

COFFEE C0$ 4 



FRESHLY ROASTED COFFEE 




Present this coupon and receiv 
a free 1 2 oz. cup of coffee 

At the Marketplace of Canterbury, nert to Subway 



, Buy a Grande or Mammoth Coffee J 
i and get a Muffin Top free i 

I At the Marketplace of Canterbury, next to Subway I 




Freshly Roasted whole bean 
or fresh ground 

At the Marketplace of Canterbury, next to Subway 



NOW OPEN 

At The Marketplace Of Canterbury, 

next to Subway. 

492-0302 

Daily Fresh-Baked Goods • Homemade Desserts • Healthy Drinks 

Kiosk Ordering System • Large Variety of Fresh-Roasted Bulk Coffees 

Drive-Through Service • 3 Flat Screen TVs • Free Internet 



iTunes + cingular 




HOLDS UP TO 100 SONGS 
\/IDEO/PHOrO CAMERA 

lETOOTH WIRELESS ENABLED 



The world's 



with iTunes 



GET A STUDENT DISCOUNT ON YOUR MONTHLY RATE PLAN! *" 



raising the bar 



CALL 1-866-CINGULAR / CLICK WWW. CINGULAR COM / C'MON IN TO A STORE 



Former Mastodon standout joins Bulgarian squad 



able to work with several 
longstanding professional 
players, including Scott Padgett 



Former IPFW center David 
Simon has heen released by the 
New Jersey Nets of the National 



Basketball Association's Idaho 
Stampede, but will pass on that 
opportunity in favor of playing 



had been with the Nets for 
a short time preparing for 
training camp and the pre- 
season. During his time with 
the organization, Simon was 



n," Simon's 
Naiditch said. 

"We knew that they were 
carrying 14 players, so it was 
going to be extremely hard to 
make the team," Simon added. 
"But you always have a chance 



Simon's contract with the 
team that Naiditch calls "the 
Yankees of Bulgaria basketball" 

will l.isi six months. 

While with Lukoil, Simon 
be used primarily c 



team that plays other teams in 
Bulgaria and is routinely the 
top team in the country. 

The length does offer Simon 
the opportunity to return to the 
United States before the end 
of the American basketball 
season. The door has been left 
open, according to Naiditch, 
for Simon to join Idaho at that 
time il he desires, 

"(Lukoil) was looking for a 



I 



02-03 175 

03-04 275 

04-05 173 



319 
503 
415 



&gt; has a domestic 



for a specific dollai 

where Dave could work at a 

high level and (the team) would 



Experience is 
positive for all 
at Madness 







Tiger's Pen 

By Anthony Maurer 

tmaurer@ipfwcommunicatar.org 



Friday night was what most people expected, 
all the way through Quintin Carouthers' sweet 
dunking display to the women's intra-squad 
scrimmage. 

The Battle of the Sexes theme was entertaining 
to say the least. Howl-vim, 1 can't believe the guys 
lost the eating contest. On a lighter note for 
all us guys on campus, the dodge-ball match 



didn't want to do the Suck and Blow 
first. Go figure, they won. 

It was pretty cool watching the guys throw 
down in the slam-dunk contest. Go figure, the 

white guy was the only onu thai didn't land a 
single dunk, but that is to be expected. Sorry 

night also makes me feel better about playing 
College Hoops 2K5, and I think Sports Editor Dan 
Vance can agree. It was a shocker to see Tyler 
Best putting up the threes, just like 



I think someone should call up 2K Sports 
and send them footage of Jakari Johnson and 
Carouthers' dunks. I don't think those were in 
the artificial intelligence in the last version. By 
the way, quit changing your numbers, I update 
that damn IPFW roster more than 1. 1. Reddick 



. Would 

IPFW Director of Basketball Operations Joel 
Cotton was missing whenever Andy Stroud was 
on the court shooting? I'm on to you, Cotton, 
don't think we at The Communicator don't know 
about the existence of "Andy Stroud" and the 
unlikely coincidence that the "two" of you are a 
mere hair coloring away. 

In getting the first look at both teams on the 
court for the first time this year, they both look 
a lot bigger than last season. I can also say that 
Rudy Yovich in Sports Information is going to 



since recruiting has taken an international swing 

I also learned that being a Division I athlete 
doesn't automatical!), make someone another 
Bo Jackson. Brent Dory is one hell of a catcher in 
the spring for the baseball team, but I don't think 
his performance in the $10,000 shot contest 
is going to have Coach Dane Fife signing any 
more scholarship oilers. Hey. il ii makes you feel 
any better, we'll head to Gales and play HORSE 
whenever you feel up to it, man. I'll probably lose 
if you can do a left-handed reverse lay-up. 

If anyone was wondering, we now know who 
is on the Blue Angelc and the Cheer Squad. 
Both groups were introduced along with the 
handball teams and the women's volleyball 
i. Frequent the home games ai the Memo rial 



i. the Tar Pit, a.k.a. the Beer Line). 
It was definitely nice to see so much support 
from the student body during the proceedings 

ye been be 

in sometl 
pictures with Landon. 

When I peer into the Facebook, and see 
multiple people who have posted their picture 
with Landon, and none who wanted some love 
from the guy that won the dunking contest, or 
the people who have good shots from behind 

Both basketball teams can officially practice 
now, in case there was any question as to the 
purpose of Midnight Madness. I ins season kicks 
off in a Hide over a month, and both teams have 
that much time to prepare for their seasons. 

For now, just relish in the fact ihat the men's 
team can almost all dunk, and that the women 
seem to have a knack lor shooting from behind 
the three-point line. At least we know ihat much 
now. The rest, we will see in November. 1 don't 
care what happens over the next month, as long 




Photo byAmie Sarka / r..if^.i i|it.v&lt; -immunicator.org 



Thickening the sisterly bond 

■ Player-coach relationship helps furthur and strengthen bond between Bartelheim sisters 



By Anthony Maurer 



program-.. She is a 2004 graduate 
from the Kelley School of Busii i ess at 
India!] a University with a bachelor's 
degree in Marketing and Operations 
Management. She, like her sister, is 
a Fort Wayne nadve and graduate 
from Northrop High School. While 
coaching, she will also be pursuing 
a Master's in Business. 

She was previously an intern in 
the Sports Marketing department of 



Indiana University Athletics timing 
the 2004-2005 year. Her experience 
in marketing is to carry over into her 
new job as assistant coach, where 
she is responsible for marketing 
and fundraising for both squads. 



Slate Morior.ilile Mention mill-, in 
both her junior and senior years. 
"Lisa is a player," Burns said 



problems in being an organized 

person," Bums said, "She comes in 

I gets the office organized ami 



would do without h 

Lisa Bartelheim enters her 
junior campaign as a Mastodon. 
She is a 2003 graduate and former 
Northrop Bruin, where she received 
All-SAC honors in all four years 
she competed. As a freshman, 



Bartelheim performed well enough 
to received First learn Independent 
recognition for the No. 4 singles 
position and was also the freshman 
Independent Player of the Year. 
On top of her play on the court, 
Bartelheim was also voted an ITA 
Scholar athlete. 

lanelle is proud of her little sister, 
and has enjoyed coaching and 
Winching her develop as a Division 

I athlete. 

"It's been fun," lanelle said. "It 
gives me the chance to see her play 

In high school, she was a freshman 



when I was a senior, so 1 didn't get 
to see her play much at all." 

The two sisters didn't always 
have such a close relationship. In 
fact, they bickered and fought just 
like every other pair of si 



lanelle renieinliers how much they 
hated sharing a room. 

"I really think we put the tape 



Lisa did concur that they w 
always going at each other, 
also mentioned that things h 
changed since high school. 

"It's cool. She's re; 
encouraging," Lisa said. ' 



► BARTELHEIM: Page B5 




Forging forward with cross 

■ Reichart making the best of post-Track days at IPFW 



sport to keep athletics proportional to 
the student body. Men's track was the 
unluckv pit I to he eliminated. 

Reichart, who ran both cross-country 
and track, but now is limited to just 
track was adamant on fighting the 
decision. He met with Athletic Director 
Mark Pope, did research on Title IX 



Photo Courtesy of Julie Sarka I sports@ipfwcommunicator.org 



THE RUN: Reichart takes a slight corner at the Falcon 
Invite at Bowling Green on Saturday, October 15 



IPFW senior Brandon Reichart 
wasn't too happy when he found out 
the university was shutting down the 
men's track program. In fact, he was 
downright livid. 

The year was 201)3. and Reichart was 
determined to not let the program die 

without a fight. Die decision was made "f'opeiold (Kekhart and a few others 

due to Title IX, the controversial rule who had joined the fight) in a meeting 
that enables (some would say forces) that if we could find a way t 
colleges and universities to have the 
amount of women's and men's sports 
reflect the enrollment figures. For 



the Journal Gazette to do a 



when il was started in the past, 
males outnumbered females, as time 
has progressed, females have passed 



work, we could keep the program," 
Reichart said. "I spent a lot of hours 
trying to make it work." 

The group couldn't sway the 

university's decision, hurting the cross- 
country program in the process. 

► STILL RUNNING: Page B5 



j^2"' 




The man behind the scenes 



lineups ,md scores Winn you visit 
tin- ll'PW Athletics website or Open a 
ii n -di, i gi i nil-, \ nil will see his work. 

Bui for most people who do these 
things, 'he' remains a mystery; a man 
behind the scenes. 

'He' is Rudy Yovich, the Sports 
Information Director for the 
■entry in his third year 



resume In ll'IW ,md soon received a 
call from Athletic Direi nit Mark Pope 
seeing if Yovich was interested in 
talking about the position 

"And here I am." Yovich said with 
a smile siill overcoming his face. 

Before working at Christian 
Brothers, lie had many other jobs, 
im Incline working in the front office 



tilings i&gt;n our feet," said Yovich. 

It is that thinking that makes 
Yovich an intregal part of what makes 
the athletic department at IPFWtick. 
As he talked. Yovich recalled when 
Notre Dame played Saint Louis in the 



,s where Ynvu h g 



,1- i 



lii-i KTJnbi. in yon h.ive'V' quest ioned 
Yovich with a smile. "You gel paid 
for working in sports, that's a dream 

It is a job that Yovich began 

working towards many years ago, 
dating back to hisd.iys with the radio 
station at f-dinbnrnugli University in 
Pennsylvania. It was tliere that Yovich 
earned a communications degree in 
I 'mil and lirsi worked with his mentor 
BobShreeve. 

Though his journey begun upon 



"A minor league professional team, 
yuu really have to wear a lot of hats " 
noted Yovich ol the lug dilfeicnte 
between his current and former job. 
'Sports Information, I enjoy this 
too, but I liked to be involved in a 
lot of different things at once. I like 
to have my hands in a little bit of 
verything." 
It is ibis hands-on desire that has 



hglmng Irish Ml&gt; Hemic Caferrelli 
witnessed, in amazement, all of the 
the work that Yovich and Francies 
did. 

"Tliere is not as much hands-on 

n or 1)1 institution. But dials 

what we do (here), we are a service 
i.icgani/ation. If we can't get them 



"Wlitle I enjoy doing what I am 
doing now, it's time to slart making 
that next progression,'' Yovich said. 
"I be next obvious one would to he an 
athletic director." 

It's the next logical step for Yovich, 
who has his share of hands- on activity 
with IPFVV. When Yovich look over 
the position in the fall of _'(H)J from 
Mike lewcll, he handled all I fi -.ports. 

Now, he splits the ditties with 
Christine I fancies But the hours and 



BEHIND HIS DESK: Rudy Yovich is the Sports Information Director 
for the Mastodons and is in charge of many athletic functions. 



worked for Christian Brothers 
University in Memphis, Tennessee. 
However, his family was not content 
in Memphis according to Yovich. And 
while he was not activly searching 
for a new position, he sent a chance 



up. Chrissy and I are pretty good at 
thinking 'if things go wrong, what 
can I do?' We are pretty good at fixing 



job." noted Yo' 

Though all of the hands-on work 
does have it's drawbacks. One such is 
bis time with bis family Yovich made 
note that he often passes his wife of 
16 years in the mornings as she is 
returning from her nursing duties 
and he is leaving for campus. 

But all of that is what the average 
person does not see of Rudy Yovich. 
Instead, he is just a mystery, a face 
behind the work. Though, he seems 
to think that's only natural. 

"People have no idea what we do, 
so I tell them we keep the website 
updated and get the information to 
the newspaper 1 , and TV stations and 
they are like oh yeah.' So they get a 
little bit of what we do," Yovich said, 
while adding that it is hard to explain 
fully what his job entails al the risk of 
confusion. 

"Most people look at you v 



Wilson makes transition from course to coaching with cross squad 



School record holder, former Mastodon runner tackling competition from a different view 



By Alex Wade 



Although last year's crc 
team captain Ian Wilson has i 
of his collegiate eligibility, he still r 



the Mastodons; however, it wasn't i 
a transition for him. 

; pretty good," VYilsi 



education." Wilson commented on the "I try to be where I can to urge them 

effect limning has had on his life and bis and encourage them.' said Wilson on h 
desire to continue with the spun he helps his team reach their goal* 

"Running has always been the second 
biggest thing in my life after school, 



■ ii, WiImhi will he attending 



that hasn't changed until my 

engagement." Wilson said. "Those a 

three main dungs in im lite right now 

It seems that the only dilln ullv V 



the USA Irack and Held Club. Doing so, 
? the Wilson will gain knowledge in coaching 
techniques and different workouts for the 



learn as much as possible but I have to do ii 

Although Wilson cannot help his learn by 
competing, he has the opportunity to help 
them in their daily routine. Wilson takes his 
team through their abs workout and weight 
swell as timing runs and making 



Helping with recruiting new runners 
is also another way Wilson helps the 
t there and help the Mastodons. 



"We host high school meets at IPFW and 
get to see a lot of good runners," Wilson 
said. "We're encouraged to go and talk to 

In the future, Wilson expressed his 
3 gel involved in high school cross- 




e the Ii 



ilhes; 



.untry, I 



: for i 



where he's at right n 



; he i 



CHECKING TIME: Ian Wilson (center) speaks with 
head coach Mike Fruchey (left) and Mike Ridenour. 



r iul, 



THE COURT 



VANCE: Do you practice your tennis year round? 
MILLER: Kind of Daniel (Jackson) from the guys' team is 



;you like to do for fun? 
all I do is SCHOOL 
VANCE: Just school? 



MILLER: I guess hang o 



VANCE: If you coul 
MILLER: Welt I'd 


g.o„,o,™-»,»,™ 


player past or 






I'd re 


ally want to play him, that wo 


Id kind of suck. 




VANCE: Is that sc 




play a pro just 






would measure up? Maybe no 


Pete Sampras , 






because we both know hov 






MILLER: 1 pick so 


neone very very low in the ran 
if could HIT with them an 


dh.n 9 i„*„ t 






VANCE: Any fa 


orite types of music? 
MILLER: Country 




VANCE 


Ah, country music Any favoti 


e ot particular artist? 








Martina McBride fan 






VANCE: Dc 






MILLER: 1 used t 


play PIANO and clarinet i 


very much. 




VANCE: Still mess atound on the pia 






MILLER: 1 have 




nd I'll play it lo make 






myself feel like 1 know how 


o play piano, but no. 





MILLER: How does it rank? 

VANCE: Yeah, like on a scale ol 1-10. 

MILLER: I think when I first came here. I would probably say 

like a five. But as I've been hete, I've gotten pride and it's like a 

seven or eight. I dunno, you get to love it once you are hete lor 




Parry scores twice in win over Raiders 



By Andrew C. Hoover 



Wriglu Stale started 



finesse z 

Mastodon defense. However, 

it quickly became apparent 



almost the t 

Terence Condor, Trent Miller 

and Trevor Peaslee controlled 
, midfield exceptionally 



almost no chance to even 
attack the goal as they were 
constantly bogged down by the 
midfielders. 

Chas Perry and Piero Caprille 
were dynamic throughout the 
first half, setting up the first 
goal by IPFW at 19:20 as Caprille 
assisted Perry to burn the Raider 
keeper. The Mastodon defense 
deserves credit for the goal as 
well, for it was directiy set up 
by excellent use of an empty 
backfield. IPFW used theempty 
field to pass backward to Knitter 
and keep players pressed up in 
Wright Statt 1 lerritory. 




UP AND DOWN: Barry Morgan (13) moves the ball by a Detroit Mercy forward i 
an October 9 game as Trent Miller (4) and Chas Parry (7) look on. 



Andy Boesch as he powered the 
ball past keeper Jason Leuthold 
at the 12:38 mark, giving the 
Mastodons a 2-0 lead. 

With eight minutes left in the 
half, the Raider offense finally 



But IPFW responded as Parry 
notched his second goal of the 
night with an assist by senior 

|in- Scluiring lo make 



e ol Mirer. ' 



i goal in 



s no t a rally for Wright 
ley were pushed out 

ime and time again. Injuries 

topped the clock 



defensive wall of Mastodons. 
Two minutes later, Victor Webb 
fired a cross-field shot that 
was masterfully headed in by 



lhe first halt was marked I his t 



by cons 

as they played as a fantastic 
singular unit. The Raiders 
seemed more concerned with 
solo effects and razzle-dazzle, 
which IPFW took to task time 
and time again. Wright State 
could not stop the exceptional 
passing as Ben Springman 
came off the bench to assist 



aggression increased, so did the 
IPFW a 3-0 lead, fouls. It took the Raiders only 
15 minutes into the second hall 
to double their penalty count, a 
ridiculous 21 by the end of the 



i march off the field with a 
comfortable lead at halftime. 

The second half was plagued 
by fouls, offsides, and injuries 



mitted 
16 fouls, which cost them a 
chance at the shutout. 

At 13:23 in the second half. 
Wright State would win a 
penalty kick off a questionable 
IPFW territory for a long time. call. This particular yellow 



State attempted 



State a 



unabated. 
Haiders seemed helpless as Ben 
Springman and Vadim Shapiro 
juggled past the defense to 
set up Aaron Tulloch's header 
for another Mastodon goal at 
7:27. A frantic and desperate 
Wright State offense stayed in 
Mastodon territory for the last 
7 minutes but could not yield 
anything. 



Women fall to physical UWGB Phoenix 






On a balmy Sunday afternoon, football 



e Wisconsin-Green Bay 



3 loss to Wisconsin- 

s the Mastodons took 
tant shots. Every attack, led 
time and time again by Anika Apar, Lindsay 
Williamson and Brittany Saylor, faltered 
against the rough play of the Phoenix. The 
Wisconsin-Green Bay goalkeeper was a 
wall, able to deal with the single shot on 
goal mustered by IPFW. 

At the 23:22 mark, Apar was checked 
hard to the ground and had to limp off the 
Field. The Mastodons managed to spend 
the next 20 minutes in Phoenix territory, 
with the lone exception being a post shot 
by Wisconsin-Green Bay into an empty 
net that luckily bounced clear. Keeper 
Shannon Lynn seemed a little sluggish in 
t dealt well with fnm ol five 



almost i 




PHYSICAL BATTLE: Sophomore Anika Apar looks to move around a 
Wisconsin-Green Bay player in Sunday s game. The Phoenix won 2-0. 



; first, 
shots on goal. 

The first half was characterized by 
defensive struggles along the entire field. 
The IPFW attack was clearly wounded 
when Anika had to leave the game. The 
Wisconsin-Green Bay defense man- 
handled the Mastodons, but its offense 
couldn't get anything started against the 
IPFW defense. At the half, both teams 
walked to the lockers tied at zero. 

The second half can be summed up as 
a game of rugby. At first, the Mastodons 
came out of the locker room and got lucky 



empty goal. The IPFW defense was weak, 
more lucky than good, in the start of the 
second. Their constant double-teaming 
on the Phoenix left open attackers ready to 
strike the net. Luckily, Wisconsin-Green 
Hay was never able to capitalize. 

Then, the game got ugly. The Mastodons' 
Kristy Arnett took a ball straight to the 
face, knocking her down. She shook it off 
and stayed in, but the roughness had just 
begun. It looked like hockey or rugby on 
the field as the Phoenix constantly checked 
and knocked around IPFW. Too few yellow 
cards were issued (zero in fact) as the 
Mastodons were brutally assaulted. 

Even with the rough play taking its toll. 
IPFW managed to stay in Wisconsin-Green 
Bay territory constantly. However, the 
defense controlled them and limited their 
shots on goal. Even with the acrobatic 
tactical advantage of Arnett (even after 
taking a shot to the face) turning every 



r kick, the Mastodons them ti 



could not capitalize. 

At the 19:29 mark of the second half, the 
Phoenix put a nail into the coffin of IPFW as 
a header off a penalty kick made the score 
1 -0. Lynn came alive with rage and took a 
commanding lead of her team, making two 
amazing saves late in the second half. 

Even with Lynn's leadership and 
guidance, IPFW could not penetrate 



injured by the rough play of Wisconsin- 
Green Bay. While trainers rushed to the 
injured players aid, the Phoenix took the 
break to huddle up and plan, ignoring the 
injured player and not even bothering to 
see what her condition was. 

In the end, the brutal and physical 
playing of Wisconsin-Green Bay carried 



Three match week 
ends with two 
straight victories 



After being swept in a match 



I he Mastodons fell to Mid- 
American Conference team 
Bowling Green on Wednesday, 
Oct. 12. 3-0. and then dropped 
Wright State (3-0) and Indiana 
State (3-0) at Gates Center to 
improve to 17-3 this season. 

"We played real bad against 
Bowling Green," senior outside 
hitter Fabiana Souza said, 
"And we had hard practices 
on Thursday and Friday. 
That's why we played hard this 
weekend. Thai's why I think we 
got back to playing good." 

"We should have beat 
(Bowling Green)," she added, 
"We are a better team than they 

With three more wins, IPFW 
will have three straight 20-win 
seasons, a school record. Last 
year, the Mastodons finished 
with a school record 24 wins. In 
2003, the program had 22 wins. 

"Its pretty good and I don't 
think any of the teams here 
get a chance to have 20 wins," 
Souza said. "We arc fortunate 
to have a season like this. We 
want to have 25 (wins) though 
and want to beat the record." 

The women's volleyball 
program has never had a 25- 
win season since the university 
joined the Division- 1 ranks in 



(6-12), IPFW won 30-26. 30- 
20 and 30-2ti. The Mastodons 
dominated in kills (48-331 and 
digs (47-32). 

Souza and sophomore 
outside hitler Cynara Martins 
paced the Mastodons kill attack 
Souza, the school's all-time kill 
leader, pounded a team-high 18 
kills while Martins chipped in 
14. The Belo Horizontc, Brazil 
natives also added 13 and 15 
kills respectively. 

Sophomore libero Peachy 
lankowski had 14 kills. Senior 
setter Erika Leitzke led the team 
with 41 assists and three service 

The second match of the 
weekend was played on Sunday, 
It, against winless Indiana 



30-20, 30-26 and 30-20. 

Souza led the team In 
kills again with 14, but junior 
hitters Claire Jackson and 
Amanda Pfister got in on the 
action, dropping 10 and 1 1 kills 
respectively. 

lackson had a remarkable 
.438 kill percentile on 16 
attempts. As a team the 
Mastodons hit on .189 percent 
(47 of 127) oE their kill attempts 
and the Sycamores had a 
porous .1)7(1 (35 of 128). 

"Claire has improved so 
much since her freshman 
year," Souza said. "She didn't 
play good on Wednesday, so 1 
think she was motivated." 

Leitzke had 38 assists and 
lankowski 14 digs. 

The Mastodons head to 
IUPUI on Friday. Oct. 21 to take 
on the Jaguars and then play 
Chicago State two days later. 




HAMMER: Amanda Pfister spikes a ball against a 
Wright State blocker on Saturday, October 15. 




amma 



Student Specials! 



9-MontH leases available! 

1 Bedroom $395. 

2 Bedroom $450. 

3 Bedioom S595 . 

— S100 Security Oeoosli — 



W f li jj Bljf •'■'"' 



Sports Briefs 



Basketball schedule change 



i. The open spni will now In- tilled by Marygrove 
College out of Detroit, Michigan. 

Had Bowling Green made the trip 10 the 
Memorial Coliseum, it would have been the first 
meeting between former Indiana players Dane 
Fife and Dan Dakich. Dakich is currently the 
[ head coach for the Falcons. 

Souza earns national ranking 

Senior Fabiana Souza was named the 

Independent National Offensive Player of the 
Week last week for her performances against 



earned the honor. 

She led IPFW in kills both matches % 
against NDSU (6.3 per game) and 23 ; 
SDSU (4.6 per game). She averaged 5.2 



e block assists. 

As a team, IPFW is still ranked in the (op 50 
by AVCA and richkern.com, though they did slip 
two spots this past week to number 50. 

Kelley matches school record 

Freshman men's golfer Patrick Kelley lied a 
previous school record last week at Morehead 
State's Greg Palmer Classic. The record was 
the university's individual 18-hole 



Kelly tied the record with the 70 he shot in tin- 
second round of the event. Kelley, Matt Fry and 
former golfer Chris Kratzert are all tied for the 
individual 18-hole " 



NEED LEGAL ADVICEP 



FREE Student Legal 
Consulting 

Sponsored by IPFW Student Government 



To schedule art appointment, 

contact the IPSGA offices 

at 481-6586 

or 

visit us in 

Walb Union, Room 225 




- '■:■• ■ 



IMMEDIATE RIGHT: 
Ashley Johnson (far left) 
dribbles the basketball 
up the court at Midnight 
Madness as part of the 
women's teams inner- 
squad scrimmage. Also 
seen are freshman Tina 
Moen (#31) and senior 
Hilary O'Connell (#22). 



BELOW: Junior transfer 

Mohamed Esseghir dunks 

a basketball during 

warmups for Midnight 

Madness. Esseghir placed 

third in the evening's 

slam dunk contest. 

Photo Courtesy of Eugene 
Harding/ 

sports@ipfwcommunic.itoi.org 




Photos by Brianna Belford / bbelfardG ipfvjcommunicator.org 

BELOW: Senior Jenny Green sizes up Mastodon newcomer Victoria Grossnickle 
as the two play a little one-on-one during the warmup session for the mens and 
womens teams during Midnight Madness. 

BOTTOM: Freshman Jakari Johnson throws down a dunk during this year's first 
annual Slam Dunk competition as coaches Dane Fife and Jeff Tungate, among 
others, look on. Johnson went to the finals of the event where he lost to junior 
Quintin Carouthers. In the past, the dunk contest was comprised of fans and not 
active players. 





"Midnight 
Madness 



GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 



We're hiring students NOW, part-time and FULL-TIME! 



Home City Ice 



Flexible Hours and GREAT PAY!! 

Route Delivery Positions Available 

We Offer 10-40+ Hours/Week! 

$8.00 to $12.00+/ Hour 

at part-time hours are available and we offer schedule flexibility. Work around your 

school schedule with moming/aftemcon and weekend hours. 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! 

Train in one facility during school, and work in another during summer breakl 

Schedute an interview today and bring a friend! 

CALL TODAY: 1 (800) 622-6566 



Or visit us at www.homeGityice.com to fill out an online application! 




debut after 
netting two 
I qoals against 
Wrigfit State 
Raiders on only 
two shots. The 
goals were his 
j 3rd and 4th of 
his sophomore 
season. 



Rathsman leads talented freshman class of women golfers 



A chill lias set in on the links 
f Deer Ttack Golf Course. A 
young golfer chats with her 



lull. Idling 

she places it on the tee. Next, 

she reaches into her golf bag 



nnneric. illy ordered; 
squints into the par 4, she spots 
her ball, picks up her bag and 

Who is she? 

She is Alison Rathsman, 



[-Conference for four years 

i Indianapolis and a 13* 1 place 
iam ranking state-wide her 
junior year, Rathsman brought 



program a level of play needed 



while with 



■ take the 
higher gear. 

While considering ll'IW 
of her possihiliti 



■ going to he a very 

i young program, 
; is difficult, but 

Rathsman. 

"I decided to go to IPFW 
because of the opportunity to 
play golf and live away from 



l, she puts the team first. 

"My goal this year was to 

help the team, and play as 

well as 1 possibly could for the 






talked with Coach Jeff Marsh i 
his first season as head coach 
of the Mastodons, and liked 
what she saw with the young 
program. 

"When 1 visited, Coach 



to succeed: two things he hopes 
for all of his young squad. 
"Alison is academically very 



to keep the athletes &lt; 
academically'' 

Academics are in 
to Rathsman, \ 
in the top 10 of her class ; 



the Mastodons and finishing 
12" 1 at the Huskle Classic. The 
team as a whole has improved 
as well and the freshmen talent 
has certainly helped with the 
improvement. 

"This year, we set a team 
record at Ball State," Rathsman 
said. 'Consistently, we have 
shot lower than last year." 

The Mastodons have been 
looking forward to their only 
inline tournament of the year, at 
Deer Track Golf Course, which 
began Oct. 17. Cleveland State, 
Loyola-Chicago, the University 
of Dayton, Youngstown State, 



traveled to Fort Wayne to 
compete. 

"We would really like to beat 
1UPUI. They are our biggest 
rival and last time we competed 
against them, we finished only 



And so far, she has done just 



Looking towards next 
year and his third year of 
the program, Marsh expects 
Rathsman to play a pivotal 
role in the formation of a solid 
program. , 

"She has a will to win and a 
competitive spirit," Marsh said. 



she needs to be quiet. Most 
likely, she will be a leader by 
example." 



Internet 
taking on 
TV's role 

By Megan Robb 



ethcrneto 
cord. Oneh 



irtelevision cable 



Interne* 
growing 



welcome to the 

imber of u&gt;llege 

students who are leaving the 

couch for the computer chair. 



reality television phe 
— and college students' busy 
schedules, TV ratings in the 
college-aged demographic are 
on the decline. Internet use, 
on the other hand, is way up. 
Indiana University students 
who still spend hours in front 

off the boob tube. 

College students should 

■n to the computer for 






rather than dominating our 
lives, is coherent with our 
hectic schedules. Students 
often watch TV to escape from 
daily stressers, neglecting 
work they should be doing in 
the process. Instead of settling 
down in front of the TV for an 
hour, students on the Internet 
can browse Facebook.com, 
a favorite Web site, or online 
periodicals between classes 
and assignments for a quick 

The Internet obviously offers 



students than TV. Television is 
limited, for the most part, to a 
set schedule of programs on 
limited subject matters. The 
billions of sites on the Internet 
include print and television 



■ of links the 
Internet completes between its 

Turning to the computer is 



ie completely still in front of the 
ube, but working at a computer 
equires upright posture and 



, burning calories in the 



Home, sweet home 




year sport. You cannot take 
spring or summer off and com 
back to cross-country ready t&gt; 



"Once they got rid of it, there 
was nothing much I could do," 
Reichart said. "Now, I'm just 









Reichart has shown how 
committed he Is this season. 
Last week was a breakout 
weekend for Reichart and the 






■.-lillllltIV 



and track (the i 
recruited) is a bit disappointing, 
but it is uplifting to see the 
program grow in his four years 
running for (he Mastodons. 

"Anytime you sec a program 
improve while you are a part 

n't have any freshmen 



experienced and showing that 
we .ue getting belter." 

Reichart is also seeing 
progress off the court in terms 
of re-gaining the men's track 
program. The Gates Expansion 
Project, scheduled to be 
completed in 2010, includes 
a track and field event area, 
which will enable IPFW to hold 
iniluor track events. 

"It looks like it will be pretty 
impressive," said Reichart about 
the expansion plans. "That will 
definitely help us out in getting 
.i ii.uk program back." 

While Reichart will not be 
around to run in the planned 
facility, he does see a rosy future 
for running sports at IPFW. 

"It is just a tough time right 
now," Reichart said. "I really 
wanted to run track and cross- 
country, but it hasn't turned out 
that way. Hopefully, i 
the coming yi 
chance." 



byAmie Sarka/ 



iJipfwcommumcator.org 



FINALLY: IPFW's Matt Fry prepares to tee off at the only home meet of the 
season for Mastodon golfers. On Monday, October 17 and Tuesday the 18th, 
IPFW hosted the IPFW Fall Classic golf tournaments. The meet was the first 
that IPFW has held in the short history of the sport. The men's team was 
added in the later part of Fall 2003 and the women's team joined the Mast- 
odon athletic program just one year later. 




) byAmie Sarka / asarka@ipfwcommunicator.org 

PRACTICE: Reichart takes part in a recent practice. 



MSA MEMBERSHIP DRIVE 



eof Allah, I lie llenerkent, llie il 



The IPFW Muslim Student Association 
is seeking to increase its membership. 



Your input and support is greatly needed! 



calls "Wheat". The 
actually rather cute. Apparently 
Lisa couldn't pronounce her 
name when she was younger. 



fortitude on the court, "She's 
a very, very tough fighter. 

Whenever she's down you can 
see she's fighting to the end. 



"Wita" and then just "Wheat". 
"Now, I consider her n&lt; 

only my sister, but like my best But, it doesn't surprise him n 



"For career longevity, he needs to play in Europe," Naiditch 
said. "David is a di lie rem kind ul player because he hasn't played 
too long. He needs [he experience to improve." 

Simon's debut with Lukoil took place on Oct. 17 against Balkan. 
The former Mastodon center scored 10 points and pulled down 
five rebounds in roughly 15 minutes of play. Lukoii won the game 
by 59 points. 

"It's not as physical, " Simon nnied alter the name. "I got some 
stupid fouls in ihe first hall' jusi adjusting lis just different." 

While he continues to adjust to the difference in game play, one 
of the biggest different e-&gt; thai Simon is emmintering overseas is 
a language barrier lliiwe\er Simon feels dial things are not that 
bad. 




Why is Cooperative 
Education good 
business for YOU? 



You earn competitive wages and may earn academic credit! 
You test classroom theory in an employment setting! 
You earn higher starting salaries after graduation! 
You establish valuable future references! 
You create realistic career expectations! 



If you are an ETCS, BAAS, or A&amp;S student with a 2.5 GPA and 
have completed your freshman requirements, you may be eligible! 

IPFW CO-OP 481-6939 www.ipfw.edu/co-op Neff337 



The Communicator 



Mam Wfcrt Mm0ng Edw 



Podium 



Weetowtoy. October 19, 2005 
Page* 



Opinions ■ Editorials 



LETTERS 



Student feels cross-country 
team missing the point 



s week I decided to go o 



atlPFW. laskedacoupleofthecross- 
■s if I could run with them. 

I can understand ihat without the coach's approval it would not be right, so I 
.-iskt'd ihe coach dirrctly. I askud tlir to.tch if I could run with his i cam and informed 
him that I ran on the IPFW cross-country learn in ihc past, and I'm now a returning 
college student. He mentioned thai he wanted in give these guys a chance to run 
and live out their college time. 

I guess I didn't quite understand what he meant by the comment. Does that 
mean J?) years old is considered old? Along with (hat, he would let me know if they 
needed me I thought the response was superficial since he never asked for my 
name or even seemed remotely inn-rested in having anyone tun with his team. 

I was crushed thai an aihleie who ran second and third man back in )9H-l-l l )Sl!i 
on a scholarship is unable to run just one day with these guys. I could better 
understand if I was a distracting figure or out of shape, but a few weeks ago I was 



is unable to jump in lor one day and run with these guys. 
First of all, cross-country has always been influenced hv die assistance of other 
runners and the friendliness has always been what ihe spun is all about. 

Second of all, I could understand if the coach wanted to research my background. 
I would have given him whatever information he needed. Plus, it sounds like 
discrimination I'm any college student to heat dial these guys need a chance to live 
out their college time again. I don't know how disci iminaiinn plays into a chance 
to live out ones college time. So, am I just chopped liver:' I he mull of the matter 
is that I fell snubbed, which is disrespectful 10 former runners. By the way, when I 
ran at IPFW, 1 vaguely remember athletes who weie former military personnel who 
were much older than me. Didldiscriminaieagainsr these guvs-' Noway. Ileamed 
from them and enjoyed being dieir teammate. 

Third, cross country has been a sport that needs participation This is not a 
great way to union rage partii ipauon hom ic-idents of i-ort Wayne. 

Fourth, if von blow oft people without researching who they are. you just might 
blow off rich philanthropists who would be willing to donate money to help the 
team. And from my recollect ion. cross- count r\ ha. always been a -.port that can use 
plenty of support since it is nol as popular basketball or volleyball is at IPFW. 

Fifth, maybe I have lot of knowledge about weight training, running, mm.] sports 
that many people would learn from. 

And my sixth and final statement to clarify is that if the coach was concerned 
about liability be should not have because I have more to worry about in this regard 
by having my 1SSA t enifiedtion in personal training and Regisieied Nurse License. 
I think respecting a former athlete and alumni of IPFW could have a" 

IB 



Perfection in a kiss? 



SNYDERE- 
MARKS 

By CHELSEA SNY- 



Ah, kissing Ihe universal sign of Society tells us it's the cool thing to 

affection. We see it everywhere - couples kiss. Television and movies are filled 

kissing on campus, a mother kissing her with these subliminal messages of sexual 

infant son. a fellow student kissing a attraction. We all made out with our 

teacher's ... well, you know. stuffed animals anxiously awaiting the 

Kissing also is the universal sign of day our Prince lor Princess] Charming 

awkwardness. I'd long forgotten the would come and sweep us off our feet, 

agony of the first adolescent kiss until Right? 

I watched my 15-year-old brother come Oh, you didn't do that? 

home from his first dale this weekend. 1 mean, me neither. Come on, what 

I watched through the window as he loser does that? 

fidgeted nervously with his house keys. Fortunately for many of us, the 

hair self-consciously, hormonal craze of college gives us a 

t of his braces. And then backdrop to overcome kissing anxiety 

kiss. and pent up hormones 
that went repressed in 
The perfect kiss hi 8 h school. For some. 



Cloooossseeerm... 

And denied. 

Truth be told, I 
probably shouldn't 
have been getting a 
sadistic joy out of this. 
After all, I was the one 
who had nothingbetter 
to do on a Friday night 
than make up a play- 
by-play of the a 1 



simple reason that 
everyone's perfect 
kiss is different. 



clumsiness of the first 

forget our dignity and, 
incidentally, our pants. 

spent most of my post- 
adolescent years waiting 
for that heart-stopping, 
shattering, 



i kid brother's date. But it spins 

brought a smile to my face, knowing None- 
thai no matter who you are or what your 1 u 

age is, the Erst kiss is painful. clumsy, ungraceful peck- 

My first kiss came in the seventh consumption kiss. (Which by 

grade. I had been "going out with" guys, don't always assume the girl 

(because that's what it was called in going to go for tongue. This hi " ' 

junior high, though we never really many wet and irritated faces.) 
Jt" anywhere) a football player The perfect kiss doesn' 



mnd -you -while- Sixpence - 
Richer amazing first kiss, 
ally find myself settling for the 






named Cory for several months, and simple 






i that everyone's perfect 



kiss is different. Some peopli 

slow kiss in the rain (For the record, it' 

i highly overrated! 



simply had betiei tilings to ihmk about, just wet and cold 
Eventually, though, we were forced to Some 

concede to peer pressure, and have the out session. Others just lil 

dreaded and feared first kiss. grandmas-house, run-of- 

Finally, in front of the pinball So many varieties and sc 

( the local bowling alley with discern between them i 



quick and awkward i 
deed was done. 

I've kissed a number of guys 
then, and in the eight years since 
first kiss, it has never gotten any e 
There is just entirely i 
consider when going up ti 



t stake. Your kiss c 






. Not i 



too sloppy, 
jh. Too quick. 
Too gross. You 



d the second the lips lock. 



As in the case of my poor brother, 
ince many of us find ourselves uncomfortably 
that shuffling away after a rejected kiss 
tsier. attempt. Maybe these people are the 

Once the humiliation subsides, they 
at least have the comfort of knowing 
they didn't even have the opportunity to 



Too long. Too 

never know. You have no idea what that Okay, you still feel like 

other person is thinking when you syving just trying to help, 
for first base. I'll be back at home with my stuffed 

It's nerve-wracking at best. animals if anyone needs me. 







T 


siisia 


ust.ee 


j£ 


$jf 








y^. -*\ 


\M 


Wem'^$ffi!&amp; 




rfilsPik 


WlSsg 






\ 


ismS^v 



Cartoon by ANTHONY MAl'RER/ 



Staff Editorial 



Where is Miers going to go? 



these days. Among the three 
branches, perhaps the Judicial 
Branch has been the most 
dynamic as of late. With the 
departure of two tenured 
justices, and a second-term 
president with the opportunity 
to appoint replacements, this 
is an interesting time for our 
country indeed. 

Sandra Day O'Connor, the 
Court's 102 Justice and its first 
female member, announced 
her retirement on July 1. 
O'Connor was on the bench 
for 24 years, appointed in 1981 
by President Ronald Reagan. 
She is a former Arizona trial 
judge and assistant attorney 
general. 

She also graduated behind 
third in herclass from Stanford, 
behind the last Chief Justice, 
William Rehnquist. Rehnquist 



; the top of his 1950 class, 
and was elevated to the status 
of Supreme Court Associate 
Justice in 1972 under Nixon. 

In 1986, Reagan promoted 
him to Chief Justice, where he 
served until his death on Sept. 
3. His passing marked over 33 
years of service in the nations 
highest court, and 19 years 
presided as Chief Justice. 

Now, President George W. 
Bush has started replacing 
the two spots vacated by 
Rehnquist and O'Connor. 



John 



Kobe 



Mie 



the 



the Court. Roberts as already 
made waves with Democrats 
about typical issues like 
abortion and gay rights. 

The larger and more 
immediate question is where 
Miers lies on some of the same 



The obvious fear ; 
since she is a member of Bush's 
staff, that a White House "Yes 
Man" will be placed on the 
Supreme Court. 

But, with no decisions to 
mark out her stances on key 
issues, Miers remains a dark 
horse in the minds of many 
on Capital Hill. Only time will 
tell if she turns about to be 
am extension of the current 
administration's agenda, or a 
wild card, voting individually 
on different cases. 

Will she be Breyer, Suiter or 
Thomas? Only time will bring 
the answer to that question. 



Radio personality presents 
Muslims in a false light 




STAFF COLUMN 



Local conservative radio talking head Pat White has his 
facts wrong. Or maybe he's just a moron. 

On Oct. 13, White was discussing a 13-page letter 
sent from al-Qaeda's second-in-command, Ayman at- 
Zawahiri, to the leader of al-Qaeda in Iraq, Abu-Musab 

Zarqawi. The letn-i uuilined ihe group's options if the 
troops out of Iraq too soon 



of a global jihad. 



United 
and the t 

The letter's contents went on to say that Zarqawi's 
tactics of killing fellow Muslims and brutally slaughtering 
hostages in Iraq may be hurting al-Qaeda's image with 
Muslim sympathizers in the region. 

Reportedly, the letter was dated July 9 and intercepted 
by II S. intelligence soon after. 

After White explained die jiiirenicntioned contents of 
the letter over the air during his daily t-h p.m. time slot on 
WOWO 1 190-AM. things went downhill. 



that an al-Qaeda spokesman, Abu Maysara, stated that 
the U.S. had fabricated the contents of the letter to 
portray al-Qaeda in a negative light. 

Regardless if U.S. intelligence did this or not before 
releasing the information to the American public. White 
failed to mention these various new- reports which could, 
in turn, defeat the whole purpose of him even discussing 
the letter at all. 

Second, White went on to say there were "two kinds 
of people" in the eyes of Muslims - "dead or Islam." Well, 
that doesn't even make sense, but I'll try to translate. 



- become a Muslim or he killed. 

White is wrong here because there are different 
interpretations of the Islamic religion, mainly two - 
modernist and fundamentalist. Modernists still practice 
Islam, but are adaptive to Western ideals, like education 
and pop culture. 

Actually, most uf the Muslims you ,nid I knowi 






push fundamentalist views to the limit 
and then try to enforce them with hloodshed. 

Furthermore. White's idea that the jihadists say, 
"become a Muslim or be killed," is flat-out wrong. Al- 
Qaeda in Iraq's militants and any other extremists in the 
region blow themselves up via car bomb and kill other 



Sot 



i I i.n /.iw, .bin's letter is saying "dead o 



In fact, the only way to not be killed by a 
to become one. In this bloody ideology, no o 



&gt; hroad of a brush on 
h ideology that 
a building or blow 
themselves up in a crowded airport that makes those very 



a daily basis 
They watch "Desperati 
Navy and Aeropostale clothing. 
The fundamentalists are the 
Islamic religion. They believe in s 
who oppress v 



and it is hate speak like Whiles thai sadly gives all 
Muslims a had name. 

White took ,i call aftei all of this nonsensical rambling 
from a confused woman who said something along these 
lines: "I thought Islam was a peaceful religion. I mean that 
is what we are told all the time." 

White responded with something like this: "Well, you 
heard me read the Qu'ran passage. You're dead or Islam." 
I don't recall the passage, but the interpretation White 
used was an extremist view, assuming that all Muslims 
interpret the same passage in that same way. 

They don't, and that is what makes fundamentalist 
and modernist Muslims. 

Sadly, I think the woman believed White's words. And 
even more sadly, I bet much of the listening audience 
believed, too. 

Maybe White didn't have his facts straight and 
shouldn't have went on such a ramble about Islam if 
he didn't know his stuff. Hut maybe he does know his 
stuff, hul chouses what to speak about and pushes those 
filtered ideas on listeners. 

Maybe White is just like that confused v 



a (Islam's bible) and base their 






Seduction only leads to strength 



IN OTHER 
WORDS 



By 

v heating c 



Whether it concen 
life, professional life, 
"e there will always 



md desert; wrong article c 

again this year. Instead.lv 
s your personal and whine because President Bush 
or your secret promised to tower taxes, which he 
ie some sort of did. But then he raised them. He also 



into a booth and voted for those I Iraq. 

thought would benefit America the Once again, that was the lovely 

most. I was wrung. Mitch Daniels bait dangled in front of my face where 

seduced me with this green 'My Man I look a bile and am now wondering 

'" i funding what I am going to do about it now. 



and his efforts internationally. I do 

not, however, see that he's helping surprised on live television, 
our national economyat the moment It's just not ever mc who ans\ 

Gas prices .ire turfing me n&gt; put uver thednoi In a couple people and si 



tickets once it goes oyer 100 million. I 
patientU wail lor the jackpot to cliinli 
,\m\ then am betrayed b\ the dreams 
and hopes I had for every penny of 
those millions. 1 was hired in and 
deserted mice again. 

I think the ultimate betrayal thus 
far in my 23 years of life would be to 
myself. 

With my grand thoughts of 
graduating &lt; ollcgc debt free 1 am 
tailing miserably With the dreams 
of landing thai coveied internship 
,n Rolling Stone slowly evolving into 
three part-time jobs while finishing 
up my degree program I've realized 
that betrayal is just something 
everyone must live with. 

When we're strong enough loknnw 
that if its there to seduce us then it'll 
probably betray us, then were smart 
enough to know that we'll make it 
through anything- whether that is a 
lame dock presidency or dreams thai 
just need a bit ot a reality check. 



Music sets the moods 



TRADEMARK 

By ANTHONY MAl'- 



Sometimes, other people's words say it better than 
your own. 1, like most other people who commute to 

ll'l-VV. have the opportunity to listen to the radio dining 
my daily trek to campus. Ik-pending on what kind of day 
I am having, or the- nighi that 1 had the nighi before, the 
music I happen to be listening to represents my mood 



was shot. It also always stems to come to pass that a 
last-paced, hard song usually comes on the radio on a 
day where kicking someone's ass is in good order. There 
are also those i aim days, when |nhn Mayer or something 
acoustic would do just fine. 

I know what a lot ol yon are thinking out there, anyone 
n change the channel when they want to, and that fact 



contributes to why the music fits the 

can't really listen to a particular station in the Fort Wayfu 
area and get one type of music genre thrown though thi 



ffi! 



lusic broadcasting has seen the local stations diversify 
) appeal to a larger audience. Now, I'm not saying you 
/oni flip the Station and hear the exact same Top 20 song 



been writing that from your a 
structure and purpose, songs i 
poetry. 

There is a lot to he said about the expressive value and 
ability for an emotional avenue in music and songs. It's 
great. You can bang your head to something hard on 98.9 
The Bear when you are feeling aggressive, to almost fall 
asleep to something a little less up-tempo from 95.1. If 
you really want to just lean back and rock your head, there 
is always the bass kick you gel from listening to 107.9. 

The melodies and beats are just one of the great 
things about the radio when you need something to help 
you reflect and think about things. Some of the words 
are exactly what was on the tip of your tongue about a 
particular thought. There are too many examples to point 
out just one. but I can personally say that there would be 
a lot more if there was a punk/emo station around here. 
Great break up/make up music. 

Yes, 1 am also one of those people who turn on the 
radio when I'm in the bathroom. I have been practicing 
lately, and I honestly think I can take on that William 
Hung person from American Idol, seriously. 



There is more to what I'm saying than genre. Some 
songs you hear just hi a situation. Perhaps, it's because 
a particular song was being played in the background 



ithan that winch is being thought of, or tin 
melody is just right for the mood. 

It's just weird, if when you pay attention to 
songs, how much you can attest that the writer could have else, it's better 



and different stuff. I haven't liked 
ince I was about 10, but their new 

:. If you have ren-nlly none ihnme.h 



modern-day equivalent to I es liiowu. But damn, it 

makes your stereo bounce. 

The lyrics from people like Lifehouse sound like a 
theme song to some sappy sitcom. Wait, I think it is. See 
my point. Music is a \ en good moor) enhancer. If nothing 



^M-; 



Gun ownership keeps everyone in line 

A Breath of Left Air 



I love guns. Probahh noi -ouieihmg you would expect American last year, 
out of me at this point, eight weeks with a column that illegal. 
proudly screams how "left" I am, but it is true. Guns are 
fantastic, and I think we need more of them, definitely 
not less. The Second Amendment is very low on my list 
of 'cool amendments,' hut it is just as sacred as the others, 
ing the one that gave me this job. Despite my label 



So then, why would making guns illegal ma! 
difference at all? Criminals break laws, and if guns \ 
illegal it would just be another law for them to break. 



of 'liberal' I am still a moderate, and I think all 
should be judged individually, so lets examine and judge 
the gun issue, as it were. 

First, let's talk about something unique about The 
Gun. It is a work of art; the aesthetics of a well-built gun 
are pleasing to the eye and as fascinating as the sword. 



It would limit the amount of guns in the nation, but 
with 200 million guns already here, it would be almost 
impossible 



lethal. The dark, somher colors are actually very nice and 
the cold metallic simplicity of these weapons are down 
right elegant. Looking at a gun in a cabinet, on a plaque 
or in a display case rc-allv highlights the art and skill that 
goes into crafting these weapi ms. 1) you look past the use, 
the gun is something to be physti ally admired. 

Next, the matter ol accidental deaths. I cannot even 
begin to say this is not a tragedy; people dying from 
accidents with guns in the home. 824 needless gun- 
accident deaths were reported in 201)4 by the Center for 
Disease Control (CDC, whit h reports and tracks all deaths 
in a given year in America). 4,3GB died in fires, nearly 
105,000 died from alcohol-related issues and around 
365,000 died from smoking. 

An average of H-l.&lt;iiin people per year die in automobile 
accidents. All of these are accidents too. People die all 
the time, and accidents from guns are not even close to 

So the point is, most gun owners are as serious as 
possible about their weapons and take all kinds of 
precautions to keep people around them safe. Gun 
circulation docs not increase the number of accidents. 
There are 200 million firearms in American private hands, 
according to the FBI, and there are roughly 155 million 
cars in American private hands, so you can see that more 
guns does not automatically equal more accident deaths. 
Incidently, accidental death is not a factor in why guns 
should, or should not, be legal. 

However, murder is a factor. The FBI estimated that 
66 percent of homicides in America are committed with 
guns. With 2004's murder r.ue being 15,910 that means 
10,500 people were murdered with guns. While this is an 
enormous number, it was a 3(1- year low and a 3.6 percent 
drop from 2003, according to CNN. But something here 
really sticks out, something aboiii this number really bugs 
me.. .oh yes. I know now.. .there were 15, 910 murders in 



One nation, under 
Intelligent Design' 



Furthermore, 
of things already illegal are in regula 
in America, like any drug yon can think of, certain types 
of guns, including certain heavy weapons like the M-60 
(think Rambo) or the Mac- 10 submachine gun Uncertain 
states) are illegal, yet you can buy them if you know the 
right guy. 

The point is, making something illegal doesn't stop 
it, it only makes it harder to get and punishes othenvise 
innocent people for possession. Making firearm 
possession a crime is a mistake, as it will only keep good 
people from protecting themselves from the evil people 
around us. If guns are illegal, then only criminals will 
possess them and they will rest easy knowing that their 
tajgets are unarmed and easy prey liven if you don't own 
a gun, the threat that you might own a gun is omnipresent 
and acts as a great bluff and deterrent to crime, even if 
you yourself do nothing to encourage this bluff. 

Humorously enough, that bluff functions on an 
international scale. Military planners in other nations 
have speculated Uiat America is impossible to invade 
because we all have guns. 

Other armies fear treading on American soil because 
they honestly see a nation of armed individuals who will 
not let our land be invaded. 

The Founding fathers iniended lor ' ['he Right to Bear 
Arms' as a way of combating tyranny and protecting the 
people from a hostile government and wilderness. This is 
anoutdatedandimpraciic.il reason lor private possession 
of guns, however, the need to keep guns in private hands 
has not diminished at all, but changed. 

In a world of violent crime where humans prey on 
humans, it is necessary to keep firearms available to law- 
abiding citizens. There are already people willing to kill, 
rob, rape and hurt others, so these same monsters would 
also be just as willing to possess an illegal firearm and 
would have the advantage n&gt; in inn- us if we, the innocent, 
could not be potentially armed back. 

Also, while unlikely, ii is important to keep firearms 
in the public's hands as a wa\ til lombatinga potentially 
tyrannical government, although I personally feel this is 
unlikely and a little silly. 

Lastly, the reason guns should be allowed to be owned 



WELCOME TO 

THUNDKRDO- 



In fact, 1 
anything else. I v 
mine, Listening ii 

topics about life, i 
tething called 



genetics, anthropology, evolution and 
the whole lot. 

Intelligent Design. Ilmmm.... 1 
thought. Seems harmless enough. I con- 



i Only data ihat supports is 
iccepted. Nothing going against the 
dea, for that would be heresy. 

Ok, down off my soapbox I come, 

july 10 get back onto another. 1 am a 

Clearing, chinch attending Catholic 



their ic 
icmplated the idea for a bit. Simply put, there is more evidence 

The notion that an '"Intelligent to support evolution than there is for 
Designer" intelligently designed us and the gravitational theory, the "Big Bang, 
'shortcomings, plate tectonics and many others. To 
cosmic Howard me, ii seems that crealionisin and intel- 
ligent design is nothing 
Simply put, if I Was but the Ibidical [tights 



all of 

That idea that 
Hughes pulled 
out of a puddle 
gelatinous goop 



designed t 
upstanding indii 
als we are today. 






had made complete 



way ol Hying to gel their 



friends were designed *^™i 
andtherestofhumanity not Xrfke'out a 

test pure logic! 

was designed, I'd be i am open to other 

ideas; I am open to other 

asking for my money ways of thought, ideoio- 



back. 



Hr*a 



Intelligent design 

to a vain attempt to get religion insert- might have beer 

irriculum. Which There could be a si 

you ask me. cosmos that decided 

;st it! There is no experiment on our p 

t we are all intel- happen: 



is completely ash 

There is no wr 

way to logically t&lt; 

ligently designed 






reated hy something. 



hot i 



way were we treated from 

designed to be the way we 

Simply put, if I was designed, 



If v 
as humans spread disease, war and 

world hunger, than I say our intelligent 
designer must be as dumb as a bag of 
hammers. And yes, I mean "Him". 

It's the same as Creation Science: it 
is nothing but a pseuduscicniific way 
intending to convince others that it is 
scientific in its methods. 

Ultimately, Its truth is derived from 
a single source, that being the bible. It illness, does that mean I can sue mc 
accepts a single explanation and nnth- designer and his subordinates? 1 mean, 
ing else that at "fixity" of species wen- thai IS a design Haw collect? faulty 
recently created by Cod and nothing engineering? Grounds for a recall? If 
else. Intelligent design and creation are the 

Also, no other explanations are ton- ways we came about iheii why are we so 
sukred. i bus making it easy to have your screwed up? 



ami my friends V 

rest of humanity was designed, I'd he 

asking for my money back. 

Lastly, if Intelligent Design was the 
way we were made ami the Bible suites 
nothing about it. does (hat make the 
Bible wrong? Does thai make the Holy 
"; fallible? If I develop a terminal 



Editorial Policy 



The Communicatot 
accompanied by a cut 
applicable). Letters no 
All submissions made 
telephone numbers wi 

Submissions must 
Communicator reservi 



welcomes responses. Letters to the t 
?nt address, telephone number and 
meeting these requirements will no 
la email will be verilterl hy t^lephn 
be published. 



tor mast be signed, dated and 
lass standing/major &lt;jr liile (il 
be considered (or publication, 
e or in person. Addresses and 






i 700 



oids Die editorial board ol The 
for length, grammar, style, and 
trial board will not be published under 



ST'llMISSIONS &lt; A.N | IK SKNT TO: 

IPSN, INC. 

WALK I'NION, STK21.-, 

'2101 COLISEUM BLVD. EAST 

FORT WAYNE, IN *M)805 

OR LETTERS@IPFWCOMMUNICATOR. 



Communicator 

is looking for 
^0— columnists, Writers, 

g He ennined tad cud, 

|Xjp Photographers 

— 8 md an Editorial Cartoonist 

If interested, 
^ontact 
k Anthony Maurer 



481-6584 

or 

coritact@ipfwcommunicator.orq 



Saddam's 
trial offers 
important 
chance 



[ of 

the United States, shortly 
after he was elected, were 10 
create a comprehensive list of 
his political opponents, round 
them up one by one and kill 



Switzerland and take hundreds 
of Swiss civilians hostage 
while raiding their homes 



Imagine If the prime minister 
of Great Britain were to Identify 
a minority group living In a 
particular region of his country 
and attempt to exterminate that 
group by attacking their villages 
with chemical gas. 

Fortunately, most citizens of 
Western democracies cannot 
fathom a life under a murderous 
dictatorial regime. 

Unfortunately, the fear 



Hussein was ousted from power 
in 2003. 

Starting Wednesday, Hussein 
will finally be held accountable 
for his tyrannical rule, and the 
world will learn the magnitude 
of the horrors committed by 
Iraq's former dictator during 
his regime. Those who were not 
formerly convinced will realize 
that his removal from power 
was long overdue. 



the first of a dozen criminal 
trials aiming to hold him 
responsible for the numerous 
atrocities he ordered during his 



S of 6,000 Kurds 
of the Barzani tribe in 19B3, 
the gassing of 5,000 Kurdish 
civilians in the village of Halabja 
in 19B8 and the capture, torture 
and taking hostage of hundreds 
of Kuwaiti civilians during his 
1990 invasion of Kuwait. 

The first trial will charge 
Husteln with "premeditated 
ttlUrder, tbrture arid fbrfcea 
disappearances" for his 
ordering the massacre of 143 
Shiltes in the village of Dujall 
(north of Baghdad) in 1982. 

Many from Dujall who were 
taken captive and tortured by 
Hussein's Baathist government, 
supposedly for their 
political opposition, remain 
unaccounted for today. 

The prosecution of Saddam 
Hussein for crimes against 
humanity represents a 
significant step toward ending 
mass murder in the world, but 
the International community 
must Insist that he be charged 
with the crime of genocide as 
well. 

The indictment of Hussein as 
well as the recent convictions of 
the perpetrators of the genocide 
in Rwanda in 1994 should lead 
the way to cases against the 
Sudanese government officials 



On Dec. 9, 1948. the United 
States along with 57 other 
member states of the United 
Nations signed a resolution 
declaring "genocide" a crime 
under International law. 

The resolution entitled, 
"Convention on the Prevention 
and Punishment of the Crime 
of Genocide" enumerates the 
various acts that constitute 
genocide, including "killing" 
and "forcible transfer" with 
"intent to destroy, in whole or In 
pan, a national, ethnic, racial, 
or religious group." The crimes 
committed by Saddam i 



or in time of war, is a crime 
under international law which 
they undertake to prevent and 
punish" (United Nations Office 
of the High Commissioner for 
Human Rights). 

The United States and Iraq, 
a fellow U.N. member nation, 
must act on their duty to bring 
to justice perpetrators of the 
crime of genocide. 

In the case of Saddam 
Hussein, Iraq has boldly 
accepted the responsibility of 
trying their former dictator 
internally rather than sending 
Hussein before the International 
Court of Justice at The Hague. 

This decision supports the 
rule of law in Iraq and sets a 
precedent for the rebuilding of 
a nation that has suffered from 
the atrocities of genocide. 

Though justice cannot make 
history less atrocious, it can 
offer hope for the future of 
human rights. 



Now, 

all your incoming 
calls can be free. 







-(Even the ones 
your friends think 
you can hear.} 




Now, 

when people are wasting your time, they're not wasting your money. 



Unlimited CALL ME Minutes 



Plus, ask about: 

• 250 Text Messages for $5.95 per month 

• Unlimited Nights &amp; Weekends on plans $50 and higher 
■ 400 Bonus Minutes with Instant TRefiil 




antract. No credit - 



No charge for incoming 





: US. Cellular 

We connect with you'. 



fVe W0 ml Hffft UfrnfctJ UUWMnM «i 

rafrto itt* noJM m ■ crt* nk* &lt;n b*n 









