Indiana University 



Purdue University • Fort Wayne 



The Communicator 



INSIDE: 



| Journaling Online 
When will web logs take 
over the Internet? 



I IAD: Clarett will ruin NFL 

Dan Vance doesn't like the decision 
to let him ptay in the NFL 



Absolutly Abs 

European import looks t 
strike platinum in U.S. 



Volume 34, Issue 20 



Mpfwcommunicator.org 



Wednesday, February 18, 2004 




*We couldn't do that without stndent help.* 



Student Government presidential 
elections will take place soon 

By Scott M. Lawson Hon of the ballot, «i forum will be 

The Communicator held in Walb Student Union in an 

effort to get to know the differing 



Election season isn't just 
underway for Democrats and 
Republicans on a nationwide scale. 
For IPFW students of any political 
affiliation, February and March 
will be a time for the IPSGA elec- 

IPFW students wanting to 
run for student government posi- 
tions need to have their paperwork 
turned in to the election officials bv 
Friday, Feb. 23. 

So far, according to elec- 
tion board official Kristin 
Brockhaus, three people are run- 
ning for Student Body President, 
while only one candidate is regis- 
tered for each the Student Body 
Vice President, Student Body 
Programmer and Student Body 
Comptroller. 

Current Student Body 
President Matt Shilling is seeking 
re-election to his post, while cur- 
rent Student Body Programmer 
Erin McConaha and Jill Carie are 
also running for the position. 

"They're just trying to get 
their signatures and their word out 
right now," Brockhaus said. 

And that explains the stu- 
dents going on walkabouts along 
campus, asking IPFW students to 
sign petitions lor their registration 
paperwork. 

To be registered for the bal- 
lot, a student has to collect 151 
IPFW students - about one percent 



candidates. 

"It's going to be debate 
style. We're going to be asking 
them questions and get the student 
body involved," Brockhaus said. 

The IPSGA elections will 
take place on Tuesday, March 23 
and Wednesday, March 24 from 9 
a.m. to 7 p.m. on the ground floor 
of Kettler Hall and also on 
Thursday, March 25 from 9 a.m. to 
6 p.m. in the Walb Union Fireside 
Lounge. 

To be eligible to vote, a 
person must be enrolled in at least 
one IPFW course for credit. 
Officials ask voters bring along a 
photo identification for the 
process. 

Having more individuals 
voting is just one more sign of the 
changes at IPFW as student 
involvement becomes tantamount 
in activities. 

"Every year, numbers are 
going up," she explained. 

All of the people running 
for offices have dedicated time to 
numerous student activities, 
Brockhaus noted. 

"Most of the people that 
are running have been involved 
since their freshman year," 
Brockhaus noted. 

And that may be what 
they're wanting others to do. 

"They're trying to get peo- 
ple involved. They think they can 
really help ouf and do whatever" is 
necessary." 



NOW 

tuned ] 

ITNT 



Channel 56, the college 
access channel devoted evclusive- 
ly to IPFW. has its base of opera- 
tions in the rarely I raveled subter- 
ranean level, and it remains in rel- 
ative obscurity despite marking 



ing the 1980s when cable was 
being introduced to Tort Wayne, 
said Lohmuller. Channel 56 was 
one of the four original cable 
access channels on the air. 

The channel is primarily 
a vehicle for classroom broad- 
casts, according to Lohmuller. 

'The largest amount (of 
programming) is live IPFW class- 
es for credit,' he said. 

Watching Channel 56 "is 
just one of (the) ways ... to , 



distribution of the 
tor off-campus learning Not only 
can students attend class m per- 
son, other mediums such as DVD, 
VHS and television are available 
and managed by the Office of 
Continuing Education. 

They (Continuing 



i years on the cable ehan- Lohmi S' Uer b 



able to them," said 

Lohmuller, the third director of 
the cable-access program since 
the channel was "lit," or first 
broadcast in 1981. 

"At that time none of this 
existed," said Lohmuller, refer- 
ring to the multiple production 
,\i-\^\ editing rooms now housed in 
the basement of Helmke Library 
The cable-access channel was first 
managed by the Learning 
Resource Center, though in its 
early years the production capa- 
bilities ol the channel were much 
more limited than their present 

"The department grew 
slowly," said Lohmuller. "(it's) still 
growing slowly," he said. 

The genesis of Channel 
5b was in the spirit of the times, 
according to Lohmuller. 

There was an opportuni- 
ty for a cable access channel dur- 



' Though summer is tradi- 
tionally not .is husv a broadcast 
schedule for Channel 56, "we 
have more classes this summer," 
said Lohmuller (It's) the most 
we've ever had in the summer," 
he added. 

While classroom broad- 
casts comprise a great deal ol the 
television programming, Channel 
56 also airs 20 live sports broad- 
casts a year, 

"That's what we have the 
most of," said Lohmuller. 

"We couldn't do that 
without student help," said 



Sixteen taped classes are 


Continued c 


n Page 2 


W&amp; MJ 






^aJL *■- 












Freshman, Nathan Reed adjusts sound le 
video balance while a class takes plac 
Channel 56 studio clasBroom. 


Dan Vance 
e in the 



Hit Daiga Hit! 


~M 




s 


tv 


H 


ef 


^ m 1astoda 

— lj,f. .4. /J 


fflw $ 




BB 


Lfc 1 


f 


\.\ 


Mike Randolph sets up Mike Daiga for a spike during a match against 
Clarke University on Feb. 13. Led by senior Matt Zbyszewski, the 
VolleyDons are 6-1 and 4-0 in the MIVA. For more on the team, see page 12. 



Taking Stats class to 
an IPFW student level 



For the students of Methods of 
Social Research, hands-on experience in 
statistical research not only helped their 
grades, the results from their recently 
published Undergraduate Student 
Survey Report have implications for the 
campus as well. 

The Student Government 
Association (SGA) recently commis- 
sioned visiting instructor Christopher 
Bradley and his class to conduct a stu- 
dent survey concerning general ques- 
tions about campus. 

"If it wasn't for those students, 
none of this would have happened," 
said Bradley. "All I did was organize 
stuff," he said. 

The ten-student class worked 
from Oct. 27 to Nov. 24 collecting data 
through telephone surveys of students 
whose names acquired through the 
office of the Registar. 

Due to privacy issues, the office 
of the Registar only supplied names of 
students who did not mark their person- 
al information as confidential, explained 
Bradley. 

' "Without his help (Patrick 
McLaughlin, the Registar) this survey 
wouldn't have gone through," he further 
said. 



Review Board (IRB) through Purdi 
University. Any time a researcher wish- 
es to conduct experiments on human 
beings, he or she must gain approval 
from the IRB before proceeding. 

The students made a total of 
1,503 calls and received a 52.43 percent 
ratio in refused to completed calls, 
according to the report. According to 
Bradley, that is "typical for a telephone 



survey 


he I 








lndi\ idu 


lis are 1 


... likely It 




u p.irlu ip 




&lt;mii.ii ted bj 


teleph 


r than 


elf-diiei ted 










higher 


&gt;verall response rat 


." stated the 












Ol .ill tli 


calls made, 164 stu- 


dents 




nted to 


answer the 




,n„lel, M 


to 12 hi 


nule survey. 


Due l.i 




i.ll.u.le. 


onstrainl 


the sm 


.11 s„m|.l 




margin ol 



Hr,nlle\ and the 111 members of 
the .lass: Maggie omening, Dottle 
Davie., Ann Ural..-, Jennifer Huntley, 
Tamnn Jones, I 'arn. en Nesbitt, Regina 
I'erliih, Sarah Si henkel, Brand! Schorey 
and Jason rimmei held brainstorming" 

the student population and to "identify 

dents think about campus ... etcetera," 
explained Bradley. 

"Overall, (students are) mostly 
satisfied with the experience," said 
Bradley. 

"People are pretty positive," he 
said 

"Undergraduate students are 
generally pleased with the education 
they are receiving at IPFW," stated the 

"Ninety-seven percent of the 
respondents agree or strongly agree that 
their undergraduate experience has 
been a positive one," further stated the 

Continued on Page 2 




Reliving the 'Miracle 
on Ice' in theatres. Is 
it worth the wait? 



do you believe? page 10 




Matt Zbyszewski is 
successfully leading 
Arnie's Army into 
battle every week 



the toronto terror page 12 




Page 2 The Communicator 



News 



February 18, 2004 



Channel 56 on Campus 



I ohinuller Any Dmitri! is iveliome In parti 

ipate m the Channel Sd broad.asls, and pro 

"We couldn'1 do thai without studei 

help," said Lohmuller Any student is wi 

arc posted .n !h. h.illiv.iv in Ihi- I Mmke has. 



unre, the station can provide the equip- 
ifnt, la.ihlies and training necessary '" gel 
ie program on the air. 

"We serve the role of technical sup- 



l for prograrr 



r,nlly in 



In addition, three ntTw video editing 
have been added to the production 
ies, with three new Macintosh Power 

." mmpiiliT-i .mailable for video cdit- 

■i i looking for a quick edit, he 

■ ni.n, choose to use iMovie, the basic 



Lohmuller. 

In addition to the live sports broad- 
casts, Channel 5h hro.id.asls three hall hour 
shows about ll'RV sports 



Up Close is another slum designed 
University Relations to lei the general pul 
know about the opportunities 



e .i facility on campus better 
campuses/ said Lohmuller 
ong program," he added. 




rotation n 



students 

advantage of Ibis prospeCl 

w l cant think of any (st 

dent- produced programs) right 

now." said Lohmuller, 

II a Student has an idea lor 
a television program I ohmuller 

explained that he will meet with 
the person and "try and learn 

from thai person wh.ii is their 

for the program," he 
' Channel 5b will 
jpport" for the stu 

said, and whether I 



'Expression Session' talent 




Right, IPFW stu 
dent Jason Blak&lt; 
perfo: 
Express: 
held in Neff Hall on 
Feb. 13. Six events 
are being held 
throughout the 

nth to celebrate 
History 



Is that a hemi? 




Comedian John Reep performs during his trip to IPFW. 
Reep, who was brought in by the Student Activities 
Board performed in Walb Ballroom on Feb. 12. Reep has 
appeared on numerous comercials, including his most 
recent and perhaps famous role is as the "Dodge Hemi 
Guy," on the Dodge truck commercials. 



Student Survey 



from Page 1 



Despite positive responses from students, 
research reveals that students generally do not 
participate in campus events, nor do they regularly 
attend athletic events," stated the report. "Only 30 
percent of those students who were surveyed 
attended a campus event in the past year; of those 
who did, the majority (73 percent) only attended 
one or two events," stated the report. 

"Students are not plugged into (the) cam- 
pus experience," commented Bradley. 

"Athletic attendance was even lower, with 
only 18 percent of those polled having gone to an 
athletic even during the past year," stated the 

In other areas of interest, while 82 percent 
of students felt "satisfied' with the types of classes 
available at IPFW, only 65 percent of students felt 
that critical courses need lor majors "were offered 
at convenient times," according to the report. In 
addition, "87 percent of those- polled were satisfied 
with the way that instructors teach courses at 
IPFW," stated the report, but only "60 percent felt 
that instructors were able to present information in 
a way that was understandable - S7 percent agreed 
that it was easy to talk to an instructor if they did 
have a problem with the class," stated the report. 



advising. 

"Students generally gave high marks to 
their most recent meeting with their advisors," stat- 
ed the report. 

"Sixty-seven percent of students have met 
with their department advisor or their college advi- 
sor during " 
who met 
"excellent" or "good job" ratings. 

In the often-debated area of food choice on 
campus, Subway emerged as the favorite with a 
"nearly two to one margin" of students choosing 
Subway over Pizza Hut Subway also earned "high- 



er marks" in food au.ihlv, .m ording to the report, 
than Pizza Hut. 

"Seventy-eight percent (of students) stated 
that they would like lo see something different on 
the IPFW campus," stated the report. Taco Bell was 
the most suggested alternative eatery from stu- 
dents, while a generic cafeteria was the second 
most popular alternative. 

The report provides both a general 
: " " of aggregate responses and a cross-tabu- 
v of the numbers by factors such as sex, 



la led v 



"We tried to see differences - there weren't 
many," said Bradley. 

"Women were more likely to meet with 
their departmental advisor -- less likely to meet 
with their college advisor -• more likely to want 
healthier food choices in the vending machines and 
were also more likely to be concerned about their 
safety on campus at IPFW," stated the report. 

By contrast, "men were more likely to feel 
safe on campus at night, were more likely to read 
the campus newspaper and more likely to have 
attended an IPFW athletic event," the report stated. 

Bradley and his das-, offered recommenda- 
tions based on the collected data and suggested an 
increased effort to initiate "student involvement in 
campus events." In addition, the report recom- 
mended a greater use of academic advisors and "to 
make end of the semester teacher evaluations 
available to students." 

The report a Is, i suggested that food variety 
could be increased through the addition of a Taco 
Bell restaurant on campus and the addition of 
"healthier food choices placed in the vending 
machines on campus," staled the report. 

Other innovations suggested by the class 
include a free attorney for students, and the possi- 



Editorial Board 

Scott M. Lawson, Editor 

S.G. Wahlherg, Managing I ditor 

Dan Vance, News Editor 

Kurtis Meyers, Ans &amp; Entertainment Editor 

Nick West, Spoil* Editor 

Katie Pruitt, Cops Editor 

Alicia Layton, On Campus Edilot 

K.E. Casey, Chief Reporter 

Amanda Pierce, Advertising Manager 

Josh Vargas, Advertising Designei 

Dorie Reynolds, Publisher 



Contact Us 

The Communicator 
Walb Union; Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Editor: (260)481-6584 

Publisher: (260)481-6585 

Advertising: (260) 481-6583 

Fax: (260)481-6045 

www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Editorial Policy 



Editorials are the opinions o 
The Communicator. The opin 



pressed lli&gt; 

- - e view 

xiisst 

iOlely the opinion or 



s author 

The C 

comes responses Irom readers 

-]i ' 

O.lll.cd h : , 

valid addre 



the Editor and gi 
iusi be 

"IS 



All submissions made \ 

mail will be verified by tele 
phone or in person. Addresst 
and telephone numbers \ '" " 
be published. 

Submissions must be typei 
double-spaced and no more rim 
400 words. 

The editorial board of Th 
Communicator 
right lo edit all s 

length, cram mar style i 

itv. Letters deeniecf libelous by 
the editorial board ■ 
published under any circun 



ered for publication 



February 18, 2004 



The Communicator Page 3 




DQ® MM)® fl©LrdD 

have learned I -S I J On the other 





IPFW 



DON'T MISS PUT! 
SPACE IS STILL AVAILABLE BUT GDING FAST! 



the ^standard 
in student living 




amenities 



' Individual Housing Agreements 

' Furnished Bedroom 

1 Furnished Living Room 

' Fully Equipped Kitchen 

' Dining Area with Chairs 

' High-speed Internet and Cable Television Service 

1 Community Center 

1 Social Lounge with Big Screen Television 

• 24-Hour Laundry Facilities 
' Fitness Center 

• Basketball Sport Court 

' Computer Learning Center/Cyber Lounge 

• On-site Community Assistant Staff 

' On-site Management and Maintenance 

• Housing for IPFW Students including Allen 
County Residents 

OPENING FALL 2004! 



IPFW 
Student 
Housing 



INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

Kettler Hall G98F • 2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, Indiana 46805 
www.IPFWstudenthousing.com • email: info@IPFWstudenthousing.com 

MMUNITIES 



PROPESSION 



\MERICAN CAA 



HOUSING FDR IPFW 



uwii.uj raa 



Page 4 The Communicator 



Opinions 



February 18, 2004 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or 

abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the 

right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the 

government for a redress of grievances. 



Editorials 



Wants, needs, and desires 



So, in i 



ut. It's possible 



&gt; ,i sampling of ivh.it some believe the campus should be using 
re wants, needs and desire-, of the university. We list these partly 
ral of Ihem are already on a drawing board, or at least a sketch- 



go gel the id 

pad. 

One ut the iirst things would he li&gt; slop eliargmg at ll'l \\ games lor children under 11. Officials 
might say that a S7 ticket loi a 7 year-old is a belter price a parent may pay than a sill check loa babysit- 
ter, bill Ih.il'snol encouraging lamilicstnconu-ln-.ee ll'FW p\,w sports. It's encouraging them to watch 
highlights on IV When we're charging admission to. n hi Id more interested in drooling than dribbling, 
we're being rude. 

We could use a bell tower. There is something bizarre about the fat I that we ring bells on campus, 
hut have no actual lower — or hells for thai matter. (The sounds you hear are coming from speakers on 
the lop of Classroom Medi&lt; ai, in case you're curious). 

lamed buildings — and not just tor people who donate a lot of money to IPFW. 



We're thankful for o 
I lere's a suggestion for a bu 
todial Mall She'll probably 
more dedicated to it than d( 



i.ike the biggeit one-on-one impacl to the students. 

lith. Ezel spent 53 years at IPFW working on the cus- 

is to give to our university, but for decades she was 

id hundreds of students combined. 

While we're on the suh|etl, how about some Mgnage on the buildings that can be read from more 

i ban 20 feel awoj I [on mart} I" 1 -! visitors do we have to help out as they wander around the Grassy 

Knoll as they search lor Nell I lall in de-peration — not realizing they are right next to it. The sign on 

Walb Mudent I mini looks great, and should (in.ivhe .ilreadv is) ihc model far tuture signage — but' 

ll'l U on, e had a radio station ll'l W no longer has a radio station. It's lime to look at broadcasting 
more than just campus lelev ision It's great to have a TV station here, but students need music to study 
by — and having othei students ,is disc jockeys could bring a sen ib Lime of identity lo students when 

An outdoor track and an indoor pool would be nice if the Athletic Department can find it in the 
budget Some financial support for the cheerleading squad would be appreciated, since they are ath- 
letes as well Are there any other squads that have to push lo have their actual uniforms paid for? 

\i"i a oon i possible weneedtoconslderreestablisrimguSemen'strackandriddteam.VVeknow 



de ue r, ,,t &gt;i here s something students could help IPFW with: attendance. Yes, with sports that 
re it i. most evident, and it will lake a While before We're in the mindset of appreciating what we 
3 oiler as a Division I school Hut we have one of the best centers in the country on our basketball 
nd few people on campus even know his name. This is Indiana ... not having a little love for the 



rl is a kind of n 

he men's volleyball* 

ould be nice to see th 



a backdrop for more structures v 
s through campus — and few of 
rrounded by The Rockies, and w 



,'ing due to decades of building a world-class program. 
at other sporting events. 

much attention, and that's an argument that can be 
idents should take advantage of Williams Theatre — an 
don. It is unfortunate more of those seats aren't filled. 
me musical concerts there. Okay, it's a pipe dream, but 
.oustic Dave Matthews show. 

:ondary bridge to cross the St. Joseph River. 



Old! 



.■IPFW a niche 






:. Few are actual needs, all things being equal. But ideas 



Word of the Week: 
Consternation 



"We're working on it." 

These four words haunt the halls of IPFW. especially the classrooms of 
those unfortunate professors who chose to use WebCT Vista to augment 
their courses Innocentlv assuming that WebCT Vista will work as it is 
supposed to, professors set up chat rooms and course materials on the 
system for their students to access. When these resources are completely 
unreachable from any computer, much less a computer on campus, all IT 
Services can say is "We're working on it." 

WebCT Vista was preceded by WebCT, which, as a whole, was a mod- 
erately functional system. It was possible to interact with professors, 
write course-oriented emails, retrieve course materials, and access chat- 
rooms. Occasionally - perhaps once a month - WebCT would experience 
some kind of failure and have to be handed over to IT Services for repair. 
On the whole, however, it was a good supplement to regular course inter- 



Ofc 



This semester, IPFW implemented an upgrade of WebCT called WebCT 
Vista. Obviouslv IPFW made the assumption that an upgrade meant the 
product would have better design and more reliable service. This is a 
common mistake regarding upgrades, though one would assume that a 
University would have faculty fluent enough in modem technology that 
they would understand the upgrade of a fundamentally flawed system 
would have an upgrade that was equally, if not more, flawed. Certainly 
the lesson has since been learned. WebCT Vista has been experiencing 
massive failures ranging from the corruption of files and links to com- 
laccessibility. 

lurse the implementation of any new system, be it riddled with 
r no, is going to have a few setbacks. Problems such as corrupted 
files or links and brief periods of complete shutdown for the first few 
weeks are completely acceptable. IPFW, however, is into its sixth week of 
classes now, and still Vista is a source of much consternation among&gt;both 
the staff and student body. The chat rooms are hard to enter, if they load 
at all; links and files refuse to work or open; the entire system crashes 
completely at least once a week; WebCT Vista is, to put it blundy, a shod- 
dy piece of work in the hands of underpaid, under appreciated, and over- 
worked IT employees. 

The students of IPFW are unwillingly paying for technology that sim- 
ply does not function up to par If given the choice and the proper beta 
testing, they would not have volunteered their hard-earned cash for 
WebCT Vista. Most of the students were |iist beginning lo grasp the basic 
concepts of WebCT, and are once more lost in the dark when it comes to 
WebCT Vista, a condition that is certainly not helped by the fact that half 
of Vista doesn't even work. Perhaps IPFW should cut their losses and 
return to WebCT - it wasn't the best, but at least it worked. 



The 

Communicator 

Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions 
expressed in editorials or opinion columns do not necessarily reflect the 
&gt; of IPFW, its employees or its student body. A column is solely the 
opinion of the author. 

The Comminicator welcomes responses from readers. All Letters to the 
Editor and guest columns'must be signed, dated and accompanied by a 
current, valid address, telephone number, and class standing/major oi 
title. Telephone numbers and addresses will not be printed. All submis- 

ons made vie e-mail will be verified by telephone or in person. 

The editorial board reserves the right to edit all submissions for length, 

rammar, style and clarity. 




Campus 



"Do you feel safe on the IPFW campus?" 



■ Derek 

■ Becher, 


rn 


■ Ashley 

■ Gladin, 


D Freshman: 




I Freshman: 


i H 1 teel sale on 


ML. 1 


■ I've heard 


H think the 


a 


1 good things 
■ about the 


| security is 




1 security. I'm 


pretty good 
and everything. 


tious and 
so I feel pr 
campus. 


^ pretty cau- 
valk with friend 
etty safe around 



■ Konjit I 
Amede, ' 

Graduate I j 

Student: Yes, I 

I think I feel j I 

haven't expe- I 



Jennifer Leas, 


rM| H Rami) 


Freshman: 


■J Hj Pomalaza- 


Yes. I haven't 


■ Lloyd, junior 


had any prob- 


a ■ Sure. IPHWis 


lems. There 


| jj H a great place 


are a lot of 


! ' j^L ^M to go to 


people 


| H school. It's 


around. 


got a wonder- 




ful student body. 



February 18, 2004 



Opinions 



The Communicator Page 5 



The flaw of perfection 



etters to the 



f carry a museum on my back in the form of a book bag. In addi- 
tion to the 50 pounds, of over-priced books and bargain notebook;., 
a plethora of other objects somehow make their way u -_ "" 
Casey gallery. About five n 



a the K. E. 
liddle of fin- 
ishing m\ math homework when I stopped to look in m\ book baj 



for my calculator. Instead of finding the calculator. I pulled ( 
blank sheet of notebook paper folded in half, a receipt from 
Subway, and another half-sneet of paper I used as lines in my the- 
atre class. Of course, after finding all of these artifacts from the past 



old flyers I pull off bulletin boards thai look interesting, two copies 
of schedules from OASIS that 1 only used once, gloves, a hat, and a 
T-shirt. Finally, when I turned the bag upside clown and shook it 
out, a seldom-used Chapstick tube and one dollar and eighteen 



talk about the'slate of my car floor (it has just been declared a state 

of emergency by the governor of Indiana). These examples of 
absolute disarray further raises the question as to whether or not I 
have any idea of what the word "organization" means. 

Of course 1 know what "organization" means, because people 
tend to tell me that I need to find this elusive pot of gold at the end 
of the productivity rainbow. Organization is when you re-organize 
the things in your life in a logical manner the day before your next 
test or paper is due. 

I have serious issues with organization; after all, just because I 
have all my notes in one folder doesn't r 
And any attempt at organizati 
than before, as I realiz - lL - ' 
ever accomplish even 

Everyone has a system, and mine is ruled by chaos. If s 
were to try in an altruistic gesture and clean out mv coat pockets or 
my book bag, I wouldn't know where anything is and I would be 
completely lost. After all, my system works well enough; I know 
that I keep my wallet in my coat pocket — or was that in my pants 
pocket — or was that in my hook bag? 

As a reporler, a student, and a data entry lackey at my place of 
employment, deadlines rule my life. Whether at The 
Communicator, in class, or at my office there are definitive lines 
whereupon no hope exists after said time. The fate of the world 



lake lists and I set goals, and at the end of the week I end up 
with a book bag full of receipts and loose change, only half my 
objectives' have been met, and 1 have the weekend to clean out 
my book bag before it all starts over again. 

At this point, 11 :30 p.m. (the best time to start your homework 
and then stop to write a c 



r the great conversation I had with mv friends thai 
day.T can sort through the flyers and look for potential news sto- 
ries, I can pick up the Braille cards and remember that I was going 
to learn how to read in the dark someday. I can take the dollar and 
get a Diet Coke, I can Jook through my notebook and laugh at how 
stupid I sound when I try and write. 

And when I look up at the clock and realize I haven't been to bed 
even though il's morning. I forgot to finish my housecleaning and 
mv car spontaneously disintegrated in a pile of rust outside, I can 
sigh, like I do every- week and start writing my lists in my expen- 
sive planner that always ends up getting lost. 

But this week, I'm just going to see what happens Maybe the 
world won't end even though the ironclad deadline for my reports 
at work is this Thursday (if I go crazy, watch the news). Mv English 
mid-term and column deadlines will come and go and so will all of 
these self-imposed pressures that might [list kill me It I keep trying 



e week: do something 



Hypocrisy: the final insult 



There are many things in life that make me mad. Slow drivers, 
obnoxious people, and arriving just in time to see the bus fly by are 
some of them. (That bus thing sounds familiar 1 ) Most of these 
things. 1 just grin and bear it. Lying is up there on the scale of 
things that irk me, because I believe that if you lie to me, you're 
just telling me that I'm too stupid to figure out or handle the truth. 
But even lying can't compare with how much hypocrisy really 
toasts my bagel. 

Passing judgment onto others when you yourself do such acts is 
hypocrisy. Drinking underage and then yelling at others for 
doing is one of the quickest ways to lose my respect. Leading the 
anti-smoking campaign on campus, while lighting up at home, 
your opinion means nothing to me. 

Hypocrisy in all forms shakes my faith in us as human beings. I 
know most of you are thinking that hypocrisy is part of the human 
condition and everyone is hypocritical in one way or another. The 
fact remains that there are good souls out here among us. There 
are people that say one thing and live by it as well. 

From health teachers that teach children about eating healthy, 
and snack on Snickers bars and Coke during their lunch break, to 
world leaders that preach peace to the nations while fighting to 
prove how peaceful they are, no one is immune from hypocrisy. 
Is it really so hard to say to yourself, you know, I yelled at some- 
one for doing this, I prohably shouldn't do it myself. How much 



time."? Do people honestly nut realize what they're doing' Does 
there exist in people no sense of shame or morals? 

If you had, let's say, three separate court cases going before the 
same judge, and all of them had broken the exact same law and 
have no prior legal issues. For the first the judge says, "ok, you 
broke the law, you're going to jail". To the next you've broke the 
law, but you just have community service." To the third "Nah, 
don't worry about, just try not to do it again, I know you MEANT 
well". If this were to happen, the legal system would be a joke. 
We have rules and laws for a reason. They are meant to be fol- 
lowed, not ignored, bent or stuck to like glue. Maybe some of us 
should take a good hard look in the mirror when before we go to 
bed at night. 




ditor 



IPFW Radio should 

play more than 

mainstream 



Dear Communicator, 

The Voices On Campus question of the week, "What 
would you like to hear on an IPFW radio station?" was 
of particular interest this past week. Some of the 
answers were even more interesting II one scans the 
FM dial in Fort Wayne, they will find Top 40, various 
genres of Rock, Oldies from several different decades, 
Classical on WBN1, Jazz and Blues on WBOI, Hip 
Hop, Christian, Country, and the list goes on. Laura 
Baughman answered the question very well when she- 
local artists The brief answer however 
t be expanded to include formats such as Folk and 
c based music and more. 
Nowhere on the dial in Fort Wayne can one hear 
Bluegrass such as that of Gillian Welch, or fine Folk 
artists such as Patty Larkin, Greg Brown or others n ho 
fill festivals throughout the nation. IPFW has students 
from throughout the world attending classes, it would 
relieve a bit of the pain of being in a strange place if 
once in a while they could hear a song from their 
homeland. World music expands the scope of all that 

Each week the local free entertainment paper, 
Whatz-Up, reviews several new local CD releases. The 
savvy DJ could put in a plug for these line local musi- 
cians, such as felling people over the air where they 
will be playing next, or where to buy their CD's before 
or after playing a cut. It might help the musician, as 
well as the venue that books the musicians make a 
buck more for a live performance. Not long ago I he 
Communicator wrote a story on our own Professor 
John Minton, telling about his new CD, "Life and 
Times," and where he could be heard in a live setting 
Playing a song from the CD followed by a short state- 
ment of where to hear him could do the same service 
with the bonus of having an idea of what to expect 
when you get there. 

There are many great acts out there that refuse to sell 
their souls to Clear Channel for airplay on commercial 
stations. They are relegated to flying just under the 
radar. The only place that they can be heard is on 
Independent or College stations. They rely on word of 
mouth and promoters taking huge chances, just to 
make enough money to keep the repairs up on their 
tour van and continue playing. I know of several 
groups who would love to stop by the station for an 
on-air interview when they come through town. 

The university is here to educate students and offer 
them something new to think about. It would be a dis- 
service if the university radio station did not present 
the same to the community as well as the students. 
Give the people who tune in something different than 
what is found on the corporation owned stations. 
Feature ideas that others refuse to look at because the 
Mother Corporation cannot make money from inde- 
pendent artists. It is a fair bet that it would soon be the 
most listened to station in the area 



Registering Complaints 



Dear Communicator, 

I'm usually not one to complain, but after four years 
at IPFW there are certain problems that just cannot be 
ignored and beg to be remedied. 

First, and most annoying, is the pointless wait for a 
rum arrow turning west into campus while north- 
bound on Crescent Avenue. I cannot begin to recall 
how many times I have waited at that stoplight for ... 
well, let's see ... nothing! No traffic coming south on 
Crescent, but I have to wait nevertheless or risk a traf- 
fic ticket. I'm not sure exactly how much time I have 
wasted in this pointless exercise of waiting for nonex- 
istent traffic at this particular turn arrow, but I'm pret- 
ty sure if I had all that time back in one chunk and was 
paid for it at the same wage rate I earn on my job, I 
would have somewhere around $120 (and I'm under- 

Why did our city traffic engineers, in their infinite 
wisdom, decide not to make this particular rum a 
"yield on green" turn? There is nothing which 
obstructs one's view of oncoming southbound traffic. 
Do they not trust the average IPFW student or 
employee's judgement about when it is safe to rum? I 
fail to see why our judgement would be any faultier 
that, say, the average Fort Wayne driver's when decid- 



ing if the coast is clear to turn left onto I alavclleoli ol 

Main Streel 

Second, and almost equally as annoying ,i s ||„. | U i -,, 

arrow, would have to be the library hours, (Although 
the library's hours, or relative la. k thercol lie i" 
more of an inconvenience than an annoyance * 

It is inconceivable to me thai any institution which 
calls itself a university can have its hbiarv closing In 
or before sic o'clock tWO nights Of the week during the 
regular semester. I his is nol to mention the ftld thai 
the lihiar\ is never open beyond eleven at night, and 
that it does not even open until noon on Sundayl I 
realize that, for nun, we are a commuter campus, bill 
that should not mean thai Students here are am less 
dedicated to their studies, or in any lev- need of a 
library i he Brsl tune I arrived a) the I [elmke i Ibrarj 

after five llurlv on a Saturday you could have 
knocked me over with a leather when I diseoverod I he 
doors to the library were locked and the lights were 
off. 

The third, and for now. the last item about which I 
will complain is mandatory attendance policies espG 
dally at the 300 level courses and above, Most profc 
sors with such a policy are quick to point out that 
attendance is crucial to academic success, and there 

fori' is rightly t onsideied in their giaduig s\ stent. My 
thoughts are that if attendance in am gnen i lass is 
really that crucial, won't that relict automatically In 

the grades I earn - independent ol am arhihaiv uie. h 

truly are different (as evidenced h&gt; our libr,u\ horn t 
because we are a commuter campus, shouldn't we be 
allowed to miss class as needed? I mean, after all, we 
don't live here on campus and many of us, unlike 
most traditional live-on i ampus students, have jobs 
and families that place demands on our time as well 

If I can miss multiple class sessions and still score 
just as well as, or better than, anyone else on quizzes, 
papers, and exams, then 1 obvious!) have demonstrat- 
ed the required level of mastery in the given i lass, lo 
I lien penalize me lor not showing up is tantamount to 
admitting that the lectures are large!\ trite and irrele- 
vant to the learning process, a problem with whit h I 
have nothing to do. 



Review mistakes 
threefold 



K. E. Casey's review of the Civic Theatre's produc- 
tion of "Joseph and the Amazing fee fin it n lor 
Dreamcoat" has some basic flaws I feel need to be 
addressed. 

First is the mistake of confusing the Perlnniiuig 
Arts Center with the Civ.c Iheatre. Thc-C.vic Theatre- 
is an organization that produces stage works. The 
Performing Arts Center is the building which the Civic 
Theatre rents to put on its performances. Although a 
reviewer may need to include the ambiance of the 
experience while attending a performance it is still 
important that two disparate entities not be confused 
into one. It is unfortunate that the reviewer is nol 
iulK i ogni/ant of Fort Wayne's art and entertainment 
institutions. 

Second is the reviewer's implication that ticket 

the costs of putting on large stage plays. The Civic 
Theatre is a volunteer communily theater If the 
actors were paid, and the backstage crew were paid, 
and the staff were paid real wages the cost of tickets to 
Civic performances would be in the neighborhood of 
$75.00 or more, and the production would have to run 
three or more months in order to meet costs. You 
know, like it is in Chicago or New York. Of course 
you won't see that here in Fort Wayne because the 
audiences wouldn't support such an expense In 
order for the people of Fort Wayne to shell out that 
kind of money they need to see a one comedian show 
in the Embassy or an aging rock band play in the 
Coliseum. 

Third on my list is Casey's misunderstanding - il i hi 
"blatant product placement'' in the show. Hello! It's 
a gag! Were you able to keep up with all the gags that 
ran throughout the production' "Joseph" is about the 
only show that is so campy and fun that sponsors can 
actually be part of the performance, and so they are. 
This is the second time I have read where someone 
confused this show with "Jesus Christ Superstar." 

Clarence F Tennis III 
Lab Technician, 
Geosciences Department 



Page 6 The Communicator 



Features 



February 18, 2004 



Enrollments rise in 
United States colleges 



By Maryanne George 

Knighl fadderNewspapera (KRT) 



Wednesday. 

Hut in Michig, 
economy may' 



struggling 



dents tu rethink ihiir lollege plans, 
say officials at Michigan State 
University and the University of 
Michigan. 

Across the country, applica- 
tions have been increasing fur the 
last (our years at the nearly &lt;&lt;00 ml 
leges that were surveyed for the 
study hy the National Association 
nl ( nllege Admission (.'nunseling, 
based in Alexandria, Va. 

Preliminary data at U-M show 
applications for this fall are down 
18 percent overall and down 23 
percent among minorities. At 
MSU, applications to date are 
down IS percent for both groups. 

A U.S. Supreme Court deci- 
sion in June striking down U-M's 
point -based system that gave 
minorities a boost may be partly 
responsible tin the lower numbers, 
school officials say. U-M has 
changed its application to require 
multiple essays, teacher recom- 
mendations and other data, mak- 
ing more work for students. 

At MSU, students are now 
encouraged to write an essay. It 
will become mandatory in the fall 
of 2005. MSU is also becoming 
competitive, discouraging 



went up about 10 percent last fall 
at MSU, and the economy has not 

bounced back in Michigan like the 
rest of the nation More students 
and families are considering com- 
munity colleges for the first two 
years and then transferring to 
MSU." 

Parents who invested their 
college savings in the stock market 
are also not seeing the growth they 
expected, she said. luition, mom 
and board at MSU for the 2003-04 
academic year for in-stale under- 
graduate students is about $] 1,000. 

At U-M, where in-state under- 
graduate tuition, room and board 
is about $14,600, admissions direc- 
tor Ted Spencer said he is hearing 
stories from parents who are nerv- 
ous about committing to send their 
children to U-M because of the soft 

"We are hearing parents talk- 
ing about sending their students to 
a less-expensive school and seeing 
how things work out economical- 
ly," Spencer said, "Even people 



■ feeling 



with white-collar jobs 
threatened. There is 
there In the marketplace." 

At Wayne State University. 
where many students commute to 
campus and can live at home, 
applications for the fall are up 30 
percent overall and 47 percent for 
minorities, according to lack Kay, 
WSU associate provost for assess- 

The opening of two residence 
halls and stepped-up recruiting 

programs at area high schools and 
in the Latino community have 
helped boost the numbers, accord- 
ing to Kay. 



« 



POOR FOOL TfflEP TO ' 

rim A PARKING SPACE'' 





Page 7 The Communicator 



Features 



February 18, 2004 



STOP GETTING DUMPED! 



» Column courtesy of CPWire 



LISA DRILY 



I have been in rocky relationship for 
the past two years wilh this guy who is 
wonderful. 1 fully believe he is the one, but 
he has really bad habits and depression that 
I canit help him with. He got depressed and 
he -aid that he was not ready to have a rela- 
tionship, but that he loves me so much. I 
believe him. It is really hard to go out with a 
person for two years and then not see him 
or talk to him at all. Any advice how should 
And how can I approach him 




You talk frequently aboui hi 
depression (and its effect on your rela 
ship) in your letter, so we know that 1) 

.in online, problem, &lt;md il dnesnil appe. 
that heis managing it with medication or 
therapy, ami 2) t nereis probably some pat- 
tern ot bad behavior in the relationship 
youive excused because of the fact that heis 
suffering from depression. 

Youfre right when you say that you 
help him with his depression, if 
vouire concerned about his well-being, you 
might try suggesting h t - visit one of the 
many sites on depression and depression 



However, you need to deal with the possi- 
bility that lie will nut act. Frankly, only he 
can deal with it. and quite honestly, you 
domt want to be in a relationship with him 
if heis not interested in finding a way to 
manage it. Why? There will be nothing 
you can do to bring him up, hut the depres- 
sion and more specifically, results of actions 
caused by In- depression will must certainly 
drag both of you down together. 

As for how you can deal with your 
heartbreak, you need tu cut yourself loose 
from this relationship and consider it over. 
By all means, mourn for what has been lost, 
but move on with your life and goals. 
Donit bide your time, waiting for the day 
when you can reconcile. Consider this 
chapter closed and move forward. If the 
two of you are truly meant to be together, 
two things will happen. First, hefll get help 
for his depression. And second, once he 

ill approach you to put things back 
together. Unfortunately that could take 
years, and itis not healthy for you to put 
your life on hold waiting lor twhat iffs.i 

Let him go. Best of luck, Hm pulling 



Please 
Recycle this 
newspaper. 

Bins are 
located on 

campus 



Two Great Deals! 



Baby Back 

*N Brew 

Wednesdays 

A full rack of Chili's® 
famous, double-basied 
Baby Back Ribs is jusi 

49.991 And 10 oz. 

Domestic Draffs are 

jus* ♦!** 




Enjoy a double order of 
fajifas (enough for fwo) 
for jusi (HI And 10 02. 
original Top Shelf and 
Caribbean Margarifas are 
only *2* 




For* Wayne • 317 E Coliseum Blvd. • 260-471-2979 



Bring a Friend!!! 

Milinar Hair, Skin, and Nails 
6016 Brandy Chase Cove 

(260)486-4952 
Toll free: 888-486-4952 

is offering... 
uts*****Facial waxing*****Body massage 

Buy One Get One Free!!!! 
Service of equal or lesser value. 



■Limited time only: March 1st - April 30th. 2004. Appointments 

must be booked in advance. Massage clients must request 

Charily when booking appointment. Milinar will Issue a gift 

certificate to the referring client In the amount of the service of equal 

or lesser value after the referred client has recleved their service. 



Page 8 The Communicator 



Features 



February 18, 2004 



5 Year Plan: 



Students stay 

By Peggy Walsh-Samecki 

Knij'lii Riiiilci Newspapers 
&lt;KRT) 



i college longer 

At Ferris Slate University, the 6-year graduation rate 
rose from 35 percent to 40 percent in the last decade, said 
Mark Sheehan, news and communications coordinator. 

mbers hold true at most universities throughout 



r fifth year at Grand 
ilmost impossible lo 

. although that's not 



ority of i 



(he state. 

■The r 
they gradu 

Idem" foi b 



ultyandaffordabuitywhe 



than the traditional 
4. 

"Most likely, they're going to pay for 5 plus," said 
Michael Bmilus, executive dire* Inrol the Presidents Council, 

Stole Universities ol Michigan, "lb finish in 4 years 



years full time." 




At the same time, the ci 


si of a degree is increasing. 


Nationwide, 4 years ol tuition 


nd room and board at a pub- 


lie university average $10,636 


last year; the average is $2635 


4 for a private university, up 


5.7 percent from last year 




The trend of taking 5 or 6 


ears to finish a degree can be 



■nK do not graduate in 4 years; 
ud Robert Maurovich, vice pres- 
and enrollment management at 
rsity "Students who graduate in 
cptuin to the rule " 
udenls are weighing class diffi- 
i they sign up for classes. Among 

More students are working, leaving less time for class- 
More students are cutting down on the number of class- 
they take to keep grades high 

;e _ 4 Students arc changing their majors, making it likely 

Id do they need additional courses. 

More students are taking remedial classes, especially 
ce for math, because they didn't gel enough in high school. 

More classes are required tor some degrees, such as 
engineering and teaching. 

Some universities are trying to find ways to encourage 
students to graduate faster. 

"The graduation rale is a figure we walch closely," said 
Michigan Stale University President Peter McPherson. "It's a 
matter of our focus, and one we've been doing a lot of think- 
ing about, as to whether it could be reduced." 

Taking more time in college not only makes education 
more costly, it also costs students income from their post- 
poned career, McPherson said, 

"If you graduate sooner, you go to work sooner," 
McPherson said. 

Northern Michigan University studied its graduation 
rate in the mid-l l '40s and decided the lack of a financial 
incentive was part of the problem, said Paul Duby, NMU 
associate vice president tor institutional research. 



&gt; charged a flat rate 
for a fuli-time course load The practice, called block tuition, 
made taking more classes a bargain. 

Now, most universities have done away with block 
tuition and charge by the credit hour. The more classes a stu- 
dent takes, the higher the tuition bill. 

"We saw more of our students drop from taking 15, 16 
credit hours down to 12," Duby said. "We found more stu- 
dents were dropping out in the process. As the time to the 
end of the tunnel got longer, you found more reasons for 
students not to finish." 

NMU's solution was to reinstitute block tuition for full- 
time students. "We saw a tum-around right away," Duby 









sity that's bucking the trend 



~The University of Michigan in Ann Arbor has a 63.9 
percent 4-year graduation rate. Its 6-year graduation rate is 
84.4 percent, well above that of other Michigan schools. 

One reason is that U-M's selectivity guarantees its stu- 
dents will be both highly qualified and highly motivated. 
Another reason: U-M has a relatively affluent student body. 
Students from affluent high schools tend to be better pre- 
pared for college. 

More than half of U-M's students come from families 
with incomes over SlOO.tHHI, only 20 percent have family 
incomes less than S^O.000, said Julie Petersen, associate vice 
president for university relations. 

Commuter campuses, on the other hand, have always 
had more students who work. 

"Almost all of our students work while they're going to 
school, many of them 20 hours or more, some full time," said 
Donna McKinley, vice chancellor for student affairs at the 
University of Michigan at I &gt;carborn. "So unless they go to 
school year-round, it's likely to take them more than the tra- 
ditional 4 years." 

&lt;c) 2004, Detroit Free Press. 

Visit the Freep, the World Wide Web site of the Detroit 
Free Press, at http://w ww.freep.com. 

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Information 



Want to sell 
something old? 
Looking to buy 

something? 
Check out The 
Communicator 

Classifieds. 

For more info, 
contact 481-6583 




• currently i 

• StopbyWalb215 



Classifieds 



THE COMMUNICATOR 




Papers come out 
on Wednesdays 
itions? Con-tact us at 481-6584 
3-mail us a-fc stupaper@ipfw.edu 



Wanted: 
Professional photographer hiring 
female models. Fine art, figure photog- 
raphy. Must be over 18. Contact Jim 

485-1618 

Movie extra's/Models needed 

Local &amp; statewide Productions 

No Exp. Req?s, All Looks, Ages 18+ 

Minor &amp; Major Roles Avail. 

EARN UP TO $3011/ DAY 

1-800-818-7520 

Looking for full or part-time work " Rcai h 



in nol-.ii.le -..lies will. Media Him I. a giow- 

ing cable TV sales, marketing and audit 

company. Salary plus 

commission. Bonuses, 

health benefits and paid 

training. Hard working, 

enthusiastic people 

wanted. Sales experience a plus not a 

requirement. 

Phone 1-800-376-7961 

Need an extra $36,000.00 a year? 

Vending route for sale. 

50 high traffic locations. Cost $5,000. 1-800 

568-1392 or www.vcndingthatworks.com 



Please Recycle this 

newspaper. Bins are located 

on campus 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



^UNITED ART and EDUCATION^ 



LOOKING FOR EMFUCfTlC WOWCFjIS 



Join our Warehouse Team &amp; Work In A friendly environment 
m Work part-time now/full-time in the summer 

■ Duties include order filling (nci^ia woe Lgiuumngupio so i&lt;») 



Starting at $7.50 hr. 



cent™, To m (f^HJnitedOh &gt;,,„., 

(2601478,-1121 rV . ^ ti 4413 Airport kxprtssway 

Monday-Friday InTf and Education Fon Wayne, Indiana 




February 18, 2004 



Sports 



The Communicator Page 9 




When will Clarett 
kill football? 



All right, so you are at a meeting with 

Eric Dickerson, O.J. Simpson and Michael 
Irvin. What is the meeting of, you ask. 
Simple: PVVKCF (People Who Killed the 
Ctvdibilitv ul Foiitb.ill). Ihi 1 org.ini/.ition's 
newest recruit: Maurice Clarett. 

Don't get me wrong, it's not like I hate 
Clarett - ok, so maybe I really do. 

How long, though, will it take for 
Clarett to surpass the damage that those 
other three dmg-iiwkiLed killers have done 
to the sport? 

Dickerson, Simpson and Irvin have 
done things to the credibility of not just the 
NFL, but all of football that would make 
Cheech, Chong and John Wayne Gacy 

But this idiotCl.irett is borderline on the 
worst thing to hit football in. ..ever. 

Clarett was so highly Invited coining mil 
ot hii;li school that everyone expected him to 
be the next Barry Sanders. 

In reality, Clarett went into Ohio State 
and got banged around like the now notori- 
ous St lohn's basketball team's prostitute. 

Against mediocre at best Big Ten 
defenses. Clarett ran lor a good amount of 
yards, yet was injured more often than not. 

Do you think that Clarett will survive 
more than 10 minutes in an NFL game 
against Warren Sapp and some of the best 
NFL defenses ever? 1 highly doubt it. As a 
matter of fact, I am willing to guarantee not. 



So after Clarett cheated his way through his 
freshmen year in college (no, professors 
don't give preferential treatment to athletes), 
he set his sights — lL 



that the NFL has, 

First off, being from Youngstown, Ohio 
doesn't win Clarett any points from me. I 
have been to that hell hole before. Believe me 
when I say that it is the "Armpit of 
America." 

And with the fact that his professors 
gave him preferential treatment at Ohio State 
during liis run to a National Title, forgive me 
if I care how bad he had it growing up. 



Now onto Clarett's assault on profes- 
sional football. After Jim Tressel and the 
Ohio State alhk-tu department gave him the 
boot for being a cheater, Clarett and his 
mother decided to put together a string of 
lawsuits against various people. 

So how is it that in America, you can file 
a lawsuit when a school suspends you for 
cheating 7 If I was a judge who read the 
paperwork of that suit, I would probably 



guidance of his mentor, former NFL player 
Jim Brown. 

And what makes Inn Broun such a pos- 
itive role model for a college student who 
already has some personal problems thai he 
can't work through without his mommy and 
his lawyer? 

Maybe it's Brown's repeated run-ins 
with law enforcement for vandalism and 
domestic disturbance among other high 
quality offenses. 

Now Clarett, 1 could see him in the CF1 
I really could. It is after all a league full of 
second rate players that never could make a 
good living playing in the NFL. And why? 
e Clarett. 



This time aimed at 
the NFL. 

Clarett's goal? To rid 
the NFL of their policy 

removed from from high 
school to enter the NFL 
Draft. 

Two weeks ago, U.S. 
District Judge Shira 
Scheindlin concluded 
that an NFL rule barring 
eligibility to Clarett and 
other young athletes from 
April's selection process 



Great, as il high school players joining 
the NBA at 18 years old hasn't damn near 
ruined professional basketball, they now 
have to do it to football too. 

Please someone with some testicular 
fortitude step up and say "Hey, this isn't 



ego and drooling o\ el I I uell s skills " 

Not a knife or coeame could kill foot- 
ball, no matter how hard O.J. or Irvin tried. 
Not even Nate Newton s lilt) pound bag of 

But with the sport's newest legal devel- 
opment, the sport is looking to head on a 
rapid decline. And yes kids, we all have 



/iolates antitrust la' 
Last Wednesday, shs 
rejected the NFL s argu 



And thus, the 
United States judicial sys- 
tem fails again - big 
suprise. And Clarett 
become eligible for the 



i State t 



1 of the pool of 




Mind Your Own 

#%&amp;! Business! 




Finally, a business plan competition that 

offers you a chance to turn your winning 

business plan into a real winning business. 

Up to $1 MILLION in funding offers! 



their businesses. See our website for official n 



www.VentureBowl.com 




Forbes 



IPFW 
W 



Campus W 
Calendar 



19 University Religious Forum: A Very 
Excellent Road to Freedom: Fort Wayne 
and the Underground Railroad, WU 222, 
noon-l:15 p.m.; free and open to the 
public. For information, call 6992. 



Fitness classes : Weigh to Go..., GC, noon- 

1 p.m.; for information, call 6647 or e-mail 
ull.ipaiiu'ipfw.edu. 

1 9 Shopping for Strength and Less Fat. 

2 6 Choices for Trimming and Toning in the 

Gym and on the Road. 



Concerts, NF Recital Hall, 7:30 p.m.: for 

information, call6714. 

20 Saxophone Quartet and Saxophone 

Choir. 
25 Symphonic Wind Ensembles. 

23 Higher Education Day at the 

Statehouse, registration, 7:45 a.m., front 
of KT; return, 6 p.m. For reservations, 
call6807ore-mailalumni@ipfw.edu. 

Monday Spanish Table — Come eat and 
talkwithus!(Vengana 
comerconnosotrosl),WUl 
for information, call 4660. 



National Eating Disorders Awareness 

Week: for information, call 6647, 6601 . or 

e-mai I til lapau@ipfw.edu. 

23 Great Jeans Give-Away, information 
display tables, and eating disorders 
screenings, KT ground floor, I0a.m- 



lp.fr 
24 Get Real. .. Dieting Mythsand 

Misconceptions, information display 
tables, and eating disorders screenings 
KT ground floor, 10 a.m.-l p.m. 



for Feb. 1&amp;-29, 2004 



Eating Disorders Awareness (continued) 
25 Fear of Being Fat: Signs. Symplons, and 

Assistance for Anorcxiu and Bulimia, 

presentation and panel discussion, 

WUII4,noon-lpm. 
2 6 Movie night and eating disorders 

screenings, WU, 5:30-8 p.m. 

27 Celebrate Every Body Walk. ..Celebrate 
All Shapes and Sizes, WU, noon-l p.m. 

24 rPFW Book Group, The Sparrow by 
Mary Doria Russell, KT 1 1 , noon. 
Guests and brown-bag lunches welcome. 
For information, call 6743. 

25 SAB event: Step Afrika, Studio Theatre. 
KTG32, noon-l p.m.; for information, 
call 6590. 

Black History Month events ; for 
information, call 6608. 

25 Step Afrika, Weisser Park Youth Center, 
6:30 p.m. 

28 African American Talcnl Showcase, 
NFl0l,7p.m. 

Great Men, Great Women Breakfast, 
WU Ballroom, 9 a.m. 

29 Winter Concert featuring Mosaic and 
Guests, WU Ballroom. 6:30p.m. 



Engineering and Technology Career 
Day, WU Ballroom, 9 a.m.-!2:30 p.m.; 

for information. call6839. 



27 Theatre: Arms and the Man, WT, 

8 p.m.; also Feb. 28. March 4, 5, and 6; 
matinee March 7, 2 p.m. For information, 
call6555. 




A &amp;r F 

Page 10 The Communicator ^j^d ^Stertaiii^ft- 



February 18, 2004 




That is exactly wkil Am.Tk.i ...ml in Hie Winter of I4R0 
In the 11th Winter Olympics, 20 unkni 
assembled in Like Placid, New York, 



"&gt;'.! 



fealcd S(&gt;\'icl hiu key program, defeating them 4-3. I will say, 
from the beginning of (his movie, I had no idea what it 
would do to me. 

In the beginning, Ihe credi 
history that affected America; Jl 
so on. They go through good lime- and troubled times and 
bring us up to dale in 1939 In all, il gives you a wonderful 
feeling ol our nation's history Ihe downfall is it's length; 
go; - 






:x:i 



MIRACLE 



W 



c a p t a i n M i k e 
Eruzione and Joe 
C u re , B i 1 1 y 



Nate Miller making up the "Conehead" offense of Mike 
Ramsey, Buz/ Schnieder and John Harrington. After months 
of rigorous training, the team finally assembles in Lake 
Placid and begins their quest for the gold medal. They play 
numerous foreign countries and to the worlds surprise, this 
ragtag band of hockey player- from America wins, They out- 
skate, out-condition and out-puck every other country. Then, 
they come into their "David versus Goliath" battle in the 
form of the Soviet Hockey Program. 

Now, you must understand what is going on in the 
times to understand how monumental this competition was. 
The Soviets had just invaded Afghanistan, they were still 
dividing Berlin with the wall and they had detonated their 
first thermonuclear weapon on Kazakhstan . These were tur- 
bulent times in America. We were in the midst of an oncom- 
ing recession at the hands of Keaganomics. Americans didn't 
have anything positive to believe in, especially in the world 
of hockey. So when a no-name bunch or kids and their coach 
form a ragtag hockey learn, whose average age was 21. were 
chosen to represent the United Stale- of America and take on 
the Soviet Union in what was described as a "Soviet born 
sport," people couldn't help but listen. 

Anyway, on to the game. The two to one shot. Most peo- 
ple think America doesn't have a chance, but what happens. 
First 30 seconds into the game, they score. Then they score 
again and again and by the third quarter they are tied with 
the undefeated Soviet machine 3-3 Then they score again, 
making it 4-3. What, what, what?! The US leads? This is like 
Elmhurst leading at half-time, you certainly don't see it a lot. 
After a vain attempt bv the Soviets, the clock runs out and 
the U.S beats the Soviet team 4-3. And as we all know so 
well, the rest is history, my friends. However unbelievable it 
may b, it happened nonetheless. 



Sadly, there is no simple way to analyze or explain this 
movie. Movies that are based on true events are harder to 
write about because it is both opinion and fact rolled into 
one. This movie was wonderful, flat out. In the legacy of 
under-dog movies like "Rocky", "Rudy" and "Remember 
The Titans" (Funny how a lot of them begin with Rs) it sur- 
passes them and takes it to a new level. The cinematography- 
was dazzling, the acting was dead-on and the skating, well, 
the only prerequisite was you had to be a hockey player and 
all these guys were hockey players. Vou can tell from the 
movie and the way they play their characters. REAL hockey 
players have an edge, it thev know they're good they won't 
tell you, they'll let their stills do it for you. These guys 
showed it. That is was made il genuine lor me. They didn't 
take a Brad Pitt look-a-hke. throw -kale- on him and let him 
slide on the ice like Bambi and Thumper. 

"Miracle" though, isn't about hockey, and that isn't the 
feeling you get. It - about trying Its about knowing that life 
throws a thousand chances and all you have to do is take 
one. By the time the credits are rolling you receive a feeling 
of accomplishment when all you have really done is spent 
seven or so dollars on a movie But you -till feel inspired and 
you understand, You understand now small things, like a, 
rag-tag hockey team can inspire a nation. You realize that sal- 
vation is possible, miracles DO happen and that NOTHING* 
bad lasts forever. 

"Rocky" had the Italian Stallion, an unknown poverty- 
stricken boxer who beat the odds and held his own against a' 
seasoned pro. "Miracle" brings that same feeling to theatres 
today by correctly showing the ton rage ol the teammates. In 
1980 America asked tor a miracle, and it was delivered in the 
form of the United state- Olvmpi, Hockey "learn. Now expe- 
rience that same feeling bv going to see "Miracle." 




kedlBodgoBG^ &lt;s©D©crj(l]ci 



Ever wish you could publish a 
book? That dream has never been easi- 
er to accomplish with the help from 
Xlibris, which Is partially owned by 
Random House Ventures, LLC. Xlibris 
has published over 8,000 titles and has 
paid over $1 mlllio In royalties, and are 
able to publish anything from a 700- 
page novel to a 24-page color childrens 






To 



about publishing 



The Fort Wayne Museum of Art is 
proud to present "Norman Rockwell 
Lithographs from the Powers Collection 
of Cheney, Washington" from April 3 
through May 23, 2004. The exhibition 
will contain fifty signed lithographs from 
the Powers Collection. Anyone with a 
curiousity or love of Rockwell's work 
should definently check out this event 

For more information, contact Linda 
Dykhuizen, Public Information 

Coordinator, at 422-6467 at ext. 312. 



Have interest in creating art with 
pastel, or sharing your art with others? 
Sign up for the Main Street Chalk Walk 
2004, sponsored by the Articulates and 
taking place in front of the Fort Wayne 
Museum of Art Now in it's fifth year, the 
event features local artists and their 
street art skills. Cost to join is $10 for 
art materials and an 8' x 8' chalking 

The event will take place on July 10- 
11, from 11am-6pm Saturday and 11am- 
5pmon Sunday.. 



Celebrate Black History Month right 
here on campus during the month of 
February. 

Join Multicultural Services for 
events such as Expression Session, 
African American Talent Show case, 
GreatMen/GreatWomen Breakfast, Step 
AFRIKA, and the WinterConcert- Mosaic 
Youth Theatre. 

If you are interested and would like 



If you would tike to appear in the Community Calendar, please contact Kurtis Meyers, A&amp;E Editor, at the office of The Communicator at 481-6584 or stupaper@ipfw.edu 



Bringing tesfllftsck 



Norah Jones sings a similar tune on her satisfying sophomor 



Two years ago when music was satu- 
rated with overtly sexual pop music, Norah 
Jones released her debut album, "Gome Away 
With Me," o- " 
Note. Now, 
later, "Come Away with Me' 



that Jones came out ol nowhere. She is not like 
the regular pop star that is all over the news; 
she is alway- fully clothed, and she is an artist 
not afraid to do -omcthing different, and play 
her own instrument. Jones' sexiness is heard 
in her voice. Although she is not a jazz purest, 
Jones did not stray far from her musical roots 
with her firsl album. In a changing world, 
Jones had released an album that people could 
embrace as personal and soothing, and that 
made her stand out from the rest. 



n 'Feels Like Home." With this album 
brought along her producer Arif Mardin, 
ic writing team including boyfriend Lee 



Alexander, and her hand, the Handsome Band, 
along with mam other guests including Dolly 
Parton (whose voice takes some gellting used 
to. Jones co-wrote four songs including the 
fir-t single "Sunrise", and she wrote two songs 
by herself, displaying her own song writing 
abilities. 

Instead of sticking to her jazz roots, 
Jones' album leans towards a country blues 
sound that is very guitar oriented with both 
the electric and the acoustic guitars, but her 
jazz roots are heard throughout the album, and 
Jones plays her signature piano both electric 
and acoustic The blues driven song "What I 
Am to You?" which Jones wrote, features 
Levon Helm, on drums, and Garth Hudson, on 
the organ, from the 70's country rock band 
The Band. Another blues driven song "In the , 
Morning" shows a roughness in Jones' voice, 




grass -ong which Jones duet- with country 
singer Parton. There are also three covers i 
the album. The first is "Be Here to Love Me, 
song written by alt-country singer To 
Zandt. Jones even -lows down the Tom Waits 
song The Long Way Home", but the highlight 
of the album is Jones' rendition of Duke 
Ellington's "Melancholia" which she 
lyrics to and retitled "Don't Miss You At AH". 

With the huge success of her first 
album, "Feels Like Home" will have a tough 



e upbeat and 



time living up to the hype. 
"Feels Like Home" 
funky than "Come Away with Me", but the 
mellowne-s of [ones' voice has not changed. 
This album showcase- lone- ability' to mix and 
match different styles of music. Whether or 
not "Feels Like Home" is as successful as her 
previous album, Jones has released a follow up 
as enlivening as the first. 



February 18, 2004 



-arts and entertainment 



The Communicator Page 1 1 



IBc^raEODdl (fibs Iban§r 



From the ashes of everv &gt;utci.'ssh.il pup 
band, there comes, usually, one successful 
solo career (i.e. Justin Timberlake). For the 
English bread group Five, that one man was 
Abs Breen. 

Bom Richard Abidin Breen in Hackney, 
East London to an English mother and 
Turkish father, Breen, now known simply as 
Abs was a musician from birth. By age 15, 
Breen moved out of his mother's home and 
by age 17, found himself living among four 
others as part of a new pop act. 

"Five was the breaking through for me," 
Abs shared. "Every solo performer ever has 
one and Five was mine. While it will always 
be something great in my life, it was more a 
path to take in my life than a final destina- 

Five's first album went on to some 
small success in the United States with their 
single "Slam Dunk (Da Funk)," but it was in 
native Europe that the group found critical 
acclaim, with multiple platinum plaques for 
their three albums and even an aslounding 
■•even million singles sold. Then, after years 
of success, Five split in 2001, leaving Abs 
i]Liestinning what was next. 

"When Five finished, I hadn't had 
enough. I'd have been crazy not to carry on. 
I was still hungry, still needed to do some- 
thing - 1 couldn't just sit around, music is my 
life," said Abs, 

So Abs went to work. Within a year, he 
found himself on S Records, the label of 
Simon Cowell of American Idol fame. The 
only question tor Abs was where he wanted 
to go with his music and whether his fans 
and fans carried over from Five would like a 
new direction it he decided to take one. 

"I've always been a bedroom DJ. 
Always been messin 1 about doing little bits 
and bobs at home," said Abs. "My friends 
would come round and we'd do mix tapes 
and such. So it seemed only right to stick 
with my roots and stick with that garage 

With most of the red tape behind him, 
Abs released his first single "What You Got," 



■sh reality for the former pop bad' 
boy, his A&amp;R man, Cowell, had reached 
acclaim in the States on American Idol, leav- 
ing Abs with over an album's worth of mate- 
rial and no release time even considered. 

"It was a frustrating period," he admits 
"But, it was meant to happen." 

Abs soon swapped out for a new team 
to promote and produce his album. While 

l people went to work, Abs took off body 



So what is Abs' favorite aspect of 

areer thus far? With screaming fans 

lining up to see one of his shows, being 

signed to a major label, having a total of 

13 number one singles in his fife; it may 

you what he enjoys 



across the globe for live performances, in "My latest tattoo is a flame which 

part to showcase his new work and at the runs down my shoulder onto my chest, 

same time to show doubters that he was said Abs. "Getting the nipple bit done hurt 

indeed serious. like hell. Every piece of art is from a differ- 

"I look forward to performances so ent place and is like a travel guide for my 

much, they're one of the best things about life. Plus, 1 kinda like the pain, which is a bit 

doing what I do," said Abs. "Being able to sick. It's addictive, but I'm a brave lad." 
perform my music to people and see the With his official launch out of the way 

reaction is phenomenal. And during that and many more body appendages on the 

transition period, there were a good deal of way, Abs, recently added to RCA Records 

critics that 1 had to prove wrong." base of talent is ready to launch in 

By October of 2003^ over a year past the the United States. His album 

planned release date, Europe got their first "Abstract Theory" 

full solo dose of Abs on disc, when he final- become available 

ly released "Abstract Theory" after three #1 the U.S. on April 6 

singles during the previous year. and Abs will roll 

In the early days of 1004, BMC Records into America 

held a press party to announce the launching tour with fellow 

of Abs' career in the United Stales. The press British launch: 



parU \ 

months after the split, that all of t 

reunited in one place 
great day," Abs said . 



bers of Fi 

"That was i 
hint of sadness 



i Europe in the early s 



America again. 
: are my A Turk is 
brothers and they met a lot to me. And the always ready, 

fact that they all came out to support me 

means the world in so many ways." "The ques- 

As January rolled through, Abs began his tion is, an 

official "Abstract lour" throughout l-ngljnd, you ready 

Ireland, Austria and Turkey. One of the odd- for Abs?" 

est transitions for Abs was that he was now 

the only focus of the fans including hoards 

of teenage girls. 

"I don't sit at home and think, 'Oh, I'm such 

a heart throb,'" Abs said with a laugh. "I'm 

not perfect in any way at all. All of these girls 

screaming how perfect I am is wicked." 

While the ran appreciation was odd, it 
was something else that blew Abs away dur- 

"For a Londoner like me, playing 
Wembley (Stadium) is always going to be a 




A better- home begins tic 
.where the experts 3re! 



Visit the Fort Wayne Home &amp; Garden Show Feb. 25 - 29 at the Memorial Coliseum. 




Explore the low-carb 

lifestyle with 

Chef J. Warren, 

'The 30-Minute Gourmet" ^ 




B 



The low-carb lifestyle "works 
for me. I lost over 70 pounds in 
less than 6 months and I am 
maintaining the weight loss," 

Chef Warren says. 



See Chef J. Warren daily 
Wed., Thure., Fri., 12 p.n 
Sat., 10 a.m., 1 p.m.. 4 p 
Sun., 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. 




mH yn feARDEN 



le experts are 



WWW.HOME-GARDENSHOW.COM 



February 25 - 29 ■ Memorial Coliseum ? Fort Wayne, Indiana 
Show Hours: Wed, Thurs, Fri: 11 a.m. - 9 p.m. ■ Sat. 9 a.m. - 9 p.m. I Sun. 11 a.m. - 5 p.n 
Tickets: Adults $7, Senior Citizens (62 and older) S5 Children under 12 FREE 



Get all the ideas and 

expertise you need 

to upgrade your lifestyle, 

inside and out! 



mmnu. 



Page 12 The Communicator 



Sports 



February 18, 2004 



Second time a charm: 'Dons defeat champs, again 

By IPFW News Service 



over defending National 
Champion Lewis University. The 
Mastodons rolled to a three game 
win Feb. 14, at the Gates Center, 30- 
17, 30-27, and 30-27. 

All IPFW controlled the 



match from the outset In game 
one, the 'Dons hit a solid .41*4 to 
Lewis' .057. IPFW also posted team 
hitting marks of .282 and .'333 in 
games two and three. 

Senior outside hitter Matt 
Zbyszewski drilled 14 kills and 
dug up 12 balls for the double-dou- 
ble. 

Sophomore middle Serdar 
Sikca also had double figure kills 
with ten, to go along with his three 
solo, and seven block assists. 

Dennis Santiago went 8 of 



9 for a hitting percentage of .889 
He also had 39 assists in the match. 
Freshman outside 

Crlstiano Moreira had an outstand- 
ing match with eight kills (.583), 
five digs, and three block assists. 

It took the IPFW men's 
volleyball team just over an hour to 
dispatch of winless Clarke 
University in Ml VA action Feb. 13 
al the Gates Center. IPFW blitzed 
the Crusaders in three Straight 

Emptying his bench, Head 



Coach Amie Ball saw his team roll 
by the scores of 30-18, 30-17, and 
30-15. 

A number of 'Dons put in 
strong hitting nights. Juniors 
Santiago and Mitch Dreisbach hit 
an identical .625 (6K/1E/8A). 

Sikca and Moriera were 
each around .500. Sikca hit .500 
(6K/1E/10A) while Moriera led 
the 'Dons with nine kills on the 
night, and finished, slugging 533. 

As always, the defensive- 
game was strong with Arnie's 



Army registering three solos, and 
28 blocking assists. Santiago and 
Mike Daiga each had six. 

The Volleydons are now 6- 
1 overall and 4-0 in the MIVA. 

IPFW returns to action on 
Friday night hosting Ball State in 
an important conference match-up. 
Findlay comes to town on Saturday 
night, too. Game times are 7p.m. at 
the Gates Center. 

Admission is free to all 
IPFW students who have their ID 



Blame Canada for this terror 



IPFW men's volley ball play er 
Matt Zbyszewski is ranked as 
one of the best in the nation 

By Lcnord McCrccry 



The 



lead 



Foreshadowing a war a 
Ball State University on F 
men's head volleyball roach 
Ball, has quite a "General" I 
his army. Mali Zbys/ewski, a z/ 
year-old Geology Major, leads lh&gt; 
troops int 
every week 

Zbys 



severe injury Me look a medical 
redshirt tli.it season and retained 
his eligihihly Retaining that eligi- 
bility allowed him to play three 
after his sophomore 



yeai 



Sow, I 
think 



hails 



fror 



Malnngrove High 
School in Toronto, 
Canada. At 

Malnngrove he par- 
ticipated in basket- 
ball and soccer and 
excelled at both. 
Surprisingly, he has 
only played volley- 
ball since his sopho- 
more year at the high 
school. 

"I had 
of buddi. 
played club 



# The Toron+o 

Terror fry the 

noiv&gt;terj # 

150" Total kills 

if m Service aces 

J • O 5 m Points per game 

O • 5 2. m Kills per game 

*- m Knee surgeries 

7 — MIVA Conference 
Player of the Week award 



techno music 



hall and they said 
that I should try out,'' 
said the senior out- 

z !TT ki i, TV! &gt;", r, "";r ™™&gt; "^^^ ^ 

nation VO " ey1 "'" lalC "' S m "" M,.r, \„, ,„.,„ h,, lu- would not be 

He was brought in as a schol- 
arship athlete and started 85 games 
his freshman year. However, in 
2002, he tore the anterior crucial "w"" 1 "- 
ligament (ACL) in his k,uv and Nfcfc w , contribute® to this story. 
had two surgeries to repair the 



Mon.il i'mvi'i Kar s In Inn he takes 



j 








IPFW outside hitter Matt Zbyszewski registers a kill in a Coliseum match on Jan. 17. The 
senior is in the upper echeleon of the entire nation in points per and kills per game. 



Henderson's big night not enough 



By IPFW News Serv 



lathi 

were the difference, as the Wright St. 
Raiders came back to beat IPFW 66-64, 
the Nutter Center. 

IPFW controlled most of this c 

against Wright State Getting 






- Keion Henderson, the 'Dc 



33- 111 Henderson paced IPFW with 
the half. 

In the second half, IPFW led by 
many as nine, and had a six point lead \&gt; 
six minutes remaining. 

But, the Raiders (13-11) would go tc 



In all, the Raiders visited the line 27 



' 18 points leading the way. 
IUPUI 81, IPFW 59 ' 
The Mid-Con leading IUPUI J. 
had little trouble with IPFW on Feb. 11, 
dropping the Mastodons with 

The Jags used a stingy trap and dead- 
ly three-point shooting to open up a 14 
point lead at the half (35-21). IUPUI (16-8) 
caused 10 turnovers in the opening half, 
which led to 1 3 points. The Jaguars also hit 
6 of 8 from behind the arc. 

In the second half, IUPUI shot a 
gaudy 64% from the held, and after open- 
ing up a 20-point lead at the 14:28 mark, 
they never looked back. 




Wisconsin-Green Bay turned 
a close first half into a sec- 
ond half runaway Feb. 14 at 
the Phoenix Sports Center. 
UWGB used a 20-4 run to 
outdistance the Mastodons 
77-54. 

The Phoenix (17-6) fea- 
tured five players with dou- 
ble figures, led by forward 
Nicole Soulis' sixteen. 
Guard Abby Scharlow regis- 
tered a double-double with 
13 points and 10 rebounds 

IPFW (7-17) was lead by- 
junior guard Courtney 
cley who tossed in 19- 

unior center Verea Bibbs 
Iso grabbed a double-dou- 
&gt;le with 13 points and 15 
ebounds. 

Wisconsin-Milwaukee 87, 
IPFW 67 



Uni\ 



sity ( 
-Milwauke 



Simonscored 22 points and ten 

rebounds, was the high-scorer for IPFW. 

Senior forward Jim Kessenich came 
off the bench tor IPFW and also hit for a 
season-high 22 points. 

Sharp-shooting IUPUL guard Akeem 
Clark tied Simun and Kessenich for game- 



The 
Wisco 

Panthers hit the ground r 

ig, and didn't stop until 

■ final buzzer on Feb. 12, 

ating IPFW 87-67 at the 

US Cellular Arena. 

After a brief early lead, 

, UWM (12-10) ran away and 

five three- hid. Led by the inside play 

1 of center Maria Viall, the 

Panthers led 46-32 at thi 



Viall was game-high with 23 points 
and cleaned the boards for 18 rebounds. 

The Mastodons were led by Amy 
Gearlds with 20 points. 

Maggie Bruening chipped in 11 



'Dons ranked 11th 
in national poll 



Being one of the top men's volleyball 
teams in the country isn't anything new to the 
IPFW Mastodons. Over the past several years, 
head coach Arnie Ball has been able to lead his 
"Army" into the AVCA Top 15 National 
Collegiate Volleyball Poll. 

The 'Dons started 

unranked this 

son, but quickly 

I worked their way 

intb the top 15. 

As of February 10, 
IPFW was ranked 
11th in the AVCA poll 
and will likely move 
up several spots after 
defeating the then 
#15 ranked squad 
Ohio State on Feb. 7. 
. Cal St. Northjidge A lso, with their 

. UCSanta Barbara second impressive 
^^ victory over defend- 
ing champion Lewis 
on Feb. 14 and the 
losses of six schools 
ahead of the 
'Dons, including top- 
ranked UCLA, IPFW 
is certainly moving 
up in the rankings. 

IPFW's only loss 
came to #12 Penn 
State, but the 'Dons 
able to stay ahead of the Nittany Lions, as the 
Nirtany Lions have a weaker schedule. 

This Friday, IPFW hosts #10 Ball State. 
New AVCA polls come out one day after The 
Communicator's deadline. 




