're inundated with previews and trailers 
before that fateful I riday premier. So how do 



For each month we're away, I'll give you three 
lovies. There will be one that I think looks good, 
ne thai I think looks awful, and one that I just 
an't decide on. Like everything else I write, this is 



just my opinion and there's a inassi 
(hat I could be mistaken about 
lategori/e But I'm usually pretty ai 
knows? (here's always room for tail 
May 

BAD: "Poseidon'' - release date .' 

This movie has "suck' 1 written all 

and fnrernosl. it's not only a re in 



I have never seen the original I'Thc Poseidon 
Adventure"! from 1972. But I hear that it was 
ouiie entertaining Sadly. "'Beyond the Poseidon 
Adventure" — the 1979 sequel — wasn't met 
with as much enthusiasm. Nor was the JDOfi 
tnade-foi --television movie starring ... well ... 
starring D-list actors. Knowing that n 



the saying is third 
(emphasis on thtrdl time's a charm." If it didn't 
work the third time, 1 seriously doubt it's going to 
work the fourth time. 

If, however, you're interested in what this 
movie's all about. I'll give you the rundown. 



It revolves around a cruise ship called — you 
guessed it — Poseidon that gets smacked bv B 
iolossal wave, thus flipping the ship upside- 
down. It sup to the dashing leading men (namely 
Josh Lucas, Kuri Russell. Richard Dreyiuss and 
Andre Hratigher) m save the day and the ladies 
[who include l-ergie — HA! — Emmy Rossum 
— gag me — and Mia Maestro — that chick from 

Just thinking aluaii ihe weak plot and weaker 
performers (no offense lo Mr. Oreyfuss and Mr. 
Braughcr) makes me want to roll around on the 
floor in a tit of hysterics. I almost want to see it 
just to laugh ... almost. 

UNDECIDED: "The Da Vinci Code" — release 

I just can't get a good reading on this movie. 
I mean, director Ron Howard is taking a mighty 
big chance turning the controversial novel into 
a film. This movie could be great or could be 
dreadful. I don't see ii landing somewhere in 
between. I think it's dcfmiielv an "all-or-nothing" 
. These are the flicks that you expect to be 









Very rarely will you 
an "il-was-OK"' rating. Don't get me wrong, 
ik it looks good, hut I'm still leery. 
' now, I'm sure most (if not all) of you know 
"The Da Vinci Code" is about. But if you 



don't, here's the story of the n 
A Harvard symbologist. Robert Ungdon (Tom 
Hanks), is vacationing in Paris when he gets an 
urgent, midnight call that summons him to the 
Louvre. Once there, he finds the corpse of a 
curator. Near the body is a mysterious cipher 
that leads Langdon and cryptologist Sophie 
Neveu (Audrey lautnu) on a hunt to find secrets 
that have supposedly been hidden right before 
our eyes for centuries. 

True, It sounds incredibly intriguing, but 1 just 
don't know. We'll all just have to see it and then 
make up our minds. 



before you starting laughing at my 
decision to label ihe lin.il installment of the "X- 
Men" trilogy as "good," hear me out. 1 have a 
long and deep affection for those crazy mutants 
I watched the cartoon as a kid every Saturday 
morning. Actually, my whole family did. So 



that saw that llii k. I tell head -over- heels for Hugh 
kit km. m's Wolverine. Was it a gooil movie? Not 
particularly, but it sure was fun. 



► SUMMER: Page A6 



Local band turns it up a notch on recent E.P 



Blame it on Rio continues development with 
E.P. produced in New York by John Nacliero 



Album Review 



It's been awhile since Blame 
it on Rio put out their most 
recent release "The Art of Saving 
Yourself," but it is never too late to 
pay certain homage to a band that 
has come as far as this Fori Wayne 



t the past four 

They have two different 
members playing bass and drums 
now, but mainstays lonny Kan and 
losh Hatfield surely get it done on 
this 2(l(l r i released five-song E.R 
1 he disc was ret orded in New York 
where the band worked with lohn 
Nacliero I be direi tion of Naoliero 
and the mastering ol I im Uushong 
give Blame it on Rio a crisp and 
sohd sound that is better than 
most of its kind anywhere. 



and they definitely pay off with 
a solid sound that doesn't sound 
exactly like anything else out 
there. And with all ol the punk ish 
bands out today, having diversity 
and bringing something ditterenl 
to the table are the only things 
to separate the pretenders from 
the genuine strong-suited bands 

"From the Beginning" delves 



strongest track on the disc with a have the right 
distinct Senses I ail-esqueopening 
that immediately is engulfed by 



want to pop your eardrums like 
many screamy bands do. Hatfield 
does his screaming the right way 
throughout this disc. 

Every track brings something 
of its own and makes you salivate 
at the idea of a full-length release 
from this band. They have come 
a long way since doing covers of 
Brian Adams songs and I can only 
imagine that they will continue to 
get better with time. And not only 
does their music sound good, they 






iRlo 



e maturity 



flavor — with 

and growth. Over the years, 1 have 

thought that vocals had been the 

main thing keeping this band records and I 
from falling in that category of Hatfield told 
great area acts. But after listening 



of their genre get 
lamous ana a little too big for their 
britches. 

"I don't want to be on TRL on 

the hour, I don't want 40.000 plays 

on the radio. 1 just want to sell 

records and be out there touring," 

during a recent 



i tin. • 



third track "Still I am 
Nothing, is very friendly on the 
level of most music in this genre, 
but the band still takes risks vocally 



I for the right : 

o reason that Blame it on Rio 

't hit amazing highs during 




Photo by Dan V 

LEAD: Blame it on Rio lead singer/ guitarist Jonny Katt. 



aiidllaifidd 
for him on i 

Even more interesting 









i still learning the n 

and dining dial show listened to 
music on a CD player between 

"We'd play a song and then losh 
and I would be talking and Aaron 
would put the headphones on," 
Katt added. "But they a 



Shaw has two businesses of his 
own, Katt takes on the brunt of 
ihe planning for Blame it on Rio. 
While finding plates thai would 
have big turnouts and have a good 
music scene, Katt already has a 
month or so of the tour planned 
spanning through the Midwest. 



would pick it up real quick." 

"Me and Aaron coming from a 
harder sound I knew it was going 
to be a little bit different but it 
wasn't hard. It touk a little hit for 
us to get settled with how they 
sounded and how we have been 



lo Hie mnsii , ihe band will hit (In- 
road for a tour again this summer, 
something that they have not 
done since October of 2005. And 
the tour is where the true "do- 
it-yourself" flavor of Bl 
Rio comes in as they 
steer clear of booking agencies 



"There are a lot of bad people 
who say that they will do things, 
like book tours, and never follow 
through with anything," Katt said. 



lout and more recently at a show 
on the Taste of Chaos Tour. 

"That (Taste of Chaosl was fun 
because when we were done, we 
could go see bands like As I Lay 
Dying. It was like getting into a 
really cool show loi free and you 
get to play,'' Katt said. 

"Everything was all setup a 



How well. 



Teat bother. 



• Jonny: "I think Josh's is Saves the Day and Nirvana" 

• Josh: "I'm going to say that Jonny's is MXPX and Green Day" 

• Aaron: "Rob Zombie and Metallica, that's Brandon's." 

• Brandon: "Ever since I first started playing guitar is was 
Metallica, Rob Zombie and Nine Inch Nails. All the stuff that mo 
didn't want me to Itsten to because it was too hard 
enough to listen to." 

• Aaron: "I would listen to every music just to listen to the drums. 



old 



sloppingpoint.lhehand will return 



themselves to a label. While they 
are signed with Thriving Records. 
Hatfield noted thai it is basically 
only a promotional contract. 
Currently, the only label that 
die band has had listen to their 
recordings is Drive Ihru Records, 



album, our 
songwriting skills get better, 
vocals get better, techniques get 



try to come up with something 
that is not so much different, 
but adds something to the music 
community." 

Hatfield added that one of 
the great appeals of Blame it on 
Hio's music is that everything they 
record in the studio is what they 
do live. The band does not use 
syothetii methods to add to their 
music and do not want what they 



album is also done 
in hopes that they wit! be named 
to AP's "Bands you Should Know" 
in 2007, something that has been 



need to do to have that happen," 

Hatfield said. "There are like 
50.000 bands out there that are 

way better than you, so you have 



played with my fear of spiders, "The 
Exorcist," well I'm Catholic so you do the 
math. But "laws" actually implemented a 
phobia into me. That being a fear of deep 
r and being eaten bv a large predatory 
' ' i. Thus. 



"Jaws" has scared 
It has scared me i 
greatest s 



ito not partaking in the 
Jitionofall. 
much like my girlfriend. 



For those of y 
who have not se 
all. There is a large, man-eating shark that 
is swimming around ibis tiny New fnglanii 
island and has a habit ol killing people. It takes 
out a kid, a dog, a couple of fisherman and 
after a long and lengthy hum that produced 
some of the greatest cinematic lines ever 
f You're gonna need a bigger boat" mu\ Quint's 
long diatribe a bout the ll.S.s. Indianapolis) all 
culminates in the shark being blown up by an 
oxygen tank. Not exactly the most prolilii riu] 
to one of the cinema world's most notorious 
bad guys, but still good enough. 

"Jaws" is not only the pinnacle of 70s 
cinema but it is also a benchmark for which 
movies now can compare themselves. Its 
accomplishments, even with an .tnimairouics 
in the form ol a clunky, extremely lake looking 
shark provided one of the greatest plots of all 
time and to this day still succeeds in t reakmg 
people out. The use of a first person eyeball 
view of the shark attacking its victims still 
leaves no room for it to be classified as yet 
another hokey B-movie. 

In 2006, as summer is looming before me 
and I sit looking out over the pond of my 
apartment, I sit and wonder about going 
swimming. One, I will look at the waves on 
the Pacific or Atlantic oceans and take a dip. 



activity thai was once ruined for me by a 70s 
horror movie. I will dive underneath the water 
and hopefully not come face to face with 
something that has more teeth than brains. 
But until (hat day happens, when I conquer 
my fear of deep water .uid the idea of being 
l my balcony and 

i flat, dry, landlocked 



JAWS 



^*o&gt; 




THE SWIM: The original summer 
blockbuster has sent fears through 
viewers for years. 



white oldie cartoon); Mickey, Pete. 

Port Royal (Pirates of the Caribbean); Jack Timon, Pumba. Scar, Hyenas, flafiki 

Sparrow, Elizabeth, Will Turner. Captain Atlantkaf I be Little Mer id): Ariel, Flounder. 

Barbossa. Sebastian, King Tritan. 

Agrabah: Aladdin, Jasmine, lago, Genie, Jafar, The battle system: 

^V*. „ Battling is very easy once you get used to the after each battle. 

Halloween Town(Nightmare Before new system. Hie triangle is the new reaction The . ontrols 

'.hn.uo.). i lark Sally, the mayor. Oogie Boogie, feature which will allow yon io dodge attacks I be controls 

easier as well as perloirn limit breaks with your lime you gel to 



Lock, Stock. Barrel, SaiUa. 



New shortcuts lor magic and items also make automatically done or you can adjust them I 

reaching necessities in the thick of battle very your taste with ihe right analog stick. This is very 

easy, and items can be automatically restocked helpful because Donald and Goofy no longer 

block your view. You can still use first person to 

look around, hut when you do your character 

...■.., :, :,. ;,.,,, 

play x 



Expressing heart, true vivid emotions 
make this E.P. anything but a failure 



An epic concert for 
the Philharmonic 



Album Review 



Failure is back. 



thriving n 
Indiana. 

Formerly known as Blue 
Background, che three local 

. guitar), Maggie liclker 



Carlyle Nowak (drums) 
released a new E.P. that sends 
your mind in spirals. And that 
is not a bad thing at all. 

Recorded in North 
Hollywood, California, "A Final 
Flight" takes so many chances 
that Heart of a Failure has never 
taken before with their music. 
The new direction pays off by 
entrancing a whole new type 
of audience while bringing the 
old fans along for the enjoyable 
ride, or flight as it may be. 

Anybody who is a fan of the 
band's older work will be taken 
immediately aback with the 
guitar riff that starts off the disc 
with the song "Love to Regret." 
The guitars hit hard and are 
quite welcome despite their 
high level of unexpectedness. 
The different levels and works 
of vocals between Mick and 
Tielker adds so much to a track 



of Heart of a Failure's new 
attitude. 

This track may be the best 
lyrically as well. "I've made 
my final attempt at keeping 
everyone happy ..." the opening 



) the world in a boastful and 
melodic way. 

"I won't Let You," is a radio- 
friendly track that is the most 
i soundine,, which 



the band will be playing. 

An eerie and harder 
undertone opening makes 
"Breathe" stand out as a deeper 
track that expresses more of the 
emotional side of Heart of a 
Failure's work on this E.R The 
single line "I am a casualty 
of this collision" sums up the 
depth and hurt that is expressed 
in this very meaningful track. 

The now Wisconsin-based 
quartet wraps up the disc with 
the lone song nut available on 
their MySpace page "Sarah Stay 



n School." 
If there is 




Epic i 






be an epic story, like Homer's 
"Ovid,'" or it can be an epic 
piece of music, like Brahms' 
Symphony No. 1 in C minor. 

Listeners were treated to 
a sampling of the latter form 
of epic Saturday night. April 
22 at the Embassy I heater as 
the Fort Wayne Philharmonic 
presented an evening of 
music by Johannes Brahms 
and Richard Sir 



traditional style of some of 
the earlier composers, it was 
pleasant and added a feeling 
of normalcy to this rather 
unique piece. 
lollowingtheir 



Courtesy Photo / arts@jptwcc 



t School" is the picture LOCAL TALENTS: Heart of a Failure is (clockwise 

rything that Heart of a f rom top | eft} . CaM y| e Nowaki Maggje Tje|(&lt;er 5argh 



Failure has become, should bi 
proud of being and what will 
separate them from everyone 

One of the best things about 
this disc is that all of the songs 
are the kind that you can sing 



Mick and Chris Christen, 



this 



lings 



"Symphonic Fragmer 
fragment filled the entire 
first half of the concert and 
displayed the orchestra at 
itrength, requiring 



not only the 
of strings, brass, et 
requiring two harpists am 
percussionists .This piece 






illustration of the biblical si. try 
of loseph. Strauss formed the 
"Symphonic Fragment" from 
portions of the original work 



fanfares, delicate solos and 
interludes filled the piece 
with restless energy Although 



a symphony, saying, "I shall 
never compose a symphony. 
You have no idea how it feels 
to hear behind you the tramp 
of a giant like Beethoven." 

However, Brahms did write 
a symphony. It was labeled 
"The Tenth," implying a 

of Beethoven's 

i symphonies. 



similarities to the works of 
Beethoven; the mournful 
melody of the first movement 
was reminiscent of Beethoven's 
Pastorale. 

Of special interest was 
the pizzicato in the fourth 
movement: the string section 
seemed to be taking the notes 
slowly when the conductor 
would suddenly accelerate 
them with wild gyrations. 
The melody of the fourth 
may be the r 



created picturesque images of 

a royal procession or an open 

The concert closed 
as conductor Tchivzhel 
recognized soloists and 
applause grew to a thundering 
downpour. This 



Senior BFA exhibit shined Second installment of Kingdom 
at Kachmann Gallery Hearts uses fresh concepts 



Gallery Review 



The grand opening for the Visual 

Communication and Design Senior Bachelor's of 
Fine Arts was held ai the Kachmann C.allery tin 
Friday. April. 22, 2006. 

The evening was a perfect atmosphere for 
talented and artistic individuals to display their 
work. Upon entering the Kachmann Gallery 
guests were greeted with the light and lively 
sounds of an acoustic guitar. 

The walls of the gallery were lined with 
graphic design, photography, illustration. 3-, 
U graphics, and eomputer animation. These' 
art forms were used to create advertisements, 
letterheads, business cards, restaurant layouts, 
menus, magazine I, ivouis, collages, self portraits, 
animated skits, comic hunks, illustrations for 
children's books, and merchandise. 

Twenty-two seniors are exhibiting their 
projects ai the Kachmann Gallery 1 Thegraduating 
seniors that are exhibiting their work include 
Michael Adams, Shannon Hillingion, Nicole 
Cassell, Kyle Creightou, Andrea Oailev. William 
Elliott, Jenna Everson, John Ross Fawiey. lustin 
Garrison, Sean Ciilhth. Anthony ll.inell. Daniel 
Harrington, Debra kinmry. Angela Kramer, John 
Paul Ladd. Adam Makmson. Destiny Mellon. 
Rigel I'll/, lessica |. Porter. Andrea Sonnenberg. 
Shannon F. leders, and I aura I cigh Wiseman. 

Senior Visual Communication and Design have produced. 
student, Nicole Cassell, said that the students All projects w 

spent many late evenings and a great deal of hard May 6. 
work to get ready lor this event. 




-i display from April 2 



All IPFW students, ^| 


fatuity and staff 


¥ • Free Checking 

• Free online bill pay 

• Free first box of checks 

• 24/7 online account acce 

• Low fees 


IU Credit Union! 

| 


IHI,'i7lvleinbejvbm&lt;s: ■ 
Kettler Hall «1 98F 1 
2101 E. Coliseum BlvcH 
Fort Wayne, IN 468O5H 
(260)481-6263 ■ 

Loan/Administrative: ■ 
Kettlei Hall «G35 ■ 
2101 E.Coliseum Blvd. 1 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 
(260) 481 -6273 

HOURS: 


• Great rates 

• Great service 

Join Today! 
ilU Credit Union 


9 a.m.- 4 p.m. 


^^ WWW.IUCU.ORG 



Game Review 



called Roxas. You find him at 
a place where Roxas and his 
friends hang out. They talk 
about how things have been 
stolen around town and how 
Seifer (from Final Fantasy VIII) 
is telling the townspeople that 
you and your friends are the 
thieves. You go out to town to 
try to prove your innocence 
when you run into Seifer and 
his gang. You fight him and win 
while your friend Pence takes a 
picture ofyour victory. Suddenly, 
something whirls by and steals 
the camera. You chase it and try 
to fight it but your attacks are 
to no avail. Suddenly when all 
seems lost, a strange weapon 
called the Keyblade appears 
in your hands. You fight the 
monster again, and win. You 
take back the photos and find 
out that they were all of you. 
The following days, you will 
get a job to help pay for a trip 
to the beach, win a struggle 
tournament, investigate urban 
legends for a school project and 
discover the meaning behind 
the odd events that have been 
occurring in the town. 

You only have six game days 
to play as Roxas, and then he 
will vanish. Soon afterward 
Sora is woken up by his friends 




Donald and Goofy. They explore 
the town and find out that the 
king is in town as well. They 
rush over to see him when they 

After a couple of rounds, they 
collapse to the ground and the 
king saves them and tells them 
to go visit a wizard friend of 
his. They do so and find out 
that a new enemy has arisen. 
They then go to various Disney 
worlds to try to stop the villains, 
but soon realize that something 



Hollow Ha si ion; Merlin, Iron, 
Winnie the Pooh and friends, 
Scrooge, Cid IFF7}, Yuffie {FF7), 
Squallf FF8), Yuna, Pain, Riku( 
FFX-2), Aerith(FF7), Cloud 
(FF7)andSephiroth(FF7J. 



The 



of 



keep calling 

what's worse, they control the 
new monsters that have been 
appearing in all the worlds. To 



M11I. in. Mushuando 
characters. 

Beast's Castle: The Beast, 
Belle and the other characters. 

Olympus Coliseum: 

Hercules, Phil. Mfg. Pegasus, 
Hades, Pain, Panic and Auron( 
FFX). 

Disney Castle: Chip, Dale, 
Minnie, Daisy and Merlin. 

Timeless River (black and 



► KINGDOM: Page A4 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



Inite&lt; 

Art and Education 





LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



Join our warehouse team in a fun, friendly environment 

■ Work part-time now/full-time in the summer. 

■ Duties include order filling. i,™^^™*™.^^.!, ?(*«., 

■ Starting at $7.50/hour. 

United Art and Education • Monday - Friday 9am-5pm • 4413 Airport Expressway 



r 



Ten albums to revolutionize 
the summer of 2006 






-compiled by Dan Vance, Arts &amp; Entertainment Editor 



Angels &amp; Airwaves - "We don't need to Whisper" Ice Cube - "Laugh Now, Cry Later" 




With the so-called "siik- projects" all done and 
gone for the members of Blink 1 02, and (hai band's 
future now being non-e\istant, comes Angels and 
Airwaves, the new band by former Blink guJtarisI 
Tom Delonge. 

The album is much anticipated in every punk 
and pop- punk circle ibis side of the moon and early 
critics say thai this anticipation is warranted. The 
disc comes out on May 23 and should be blaring 
from your car stereo all summer long. 




With the new album coming out on June 6, Cube 

has promised collaborations with Snoop and lil Jon 
as well as being vocal about the album being mostly 
about having fun and enjoying life. This will be a rare 
opportunity, seeing as how most of his discs have 
been darker and always labeled as "gansta rap." 
Cube is taking some chances with this release. 




Obie Trice - "Second Round's On Me" 

The long awaited follow-up to "Cheer" will hit 
stores on May 30. It has been a quiet road for the 
Eminem understudy since his List release. He has 
not gotten very involved in the Murder Inc/Ja Rule 
beef that many of his Shady/ Aftermath brothers 
have been involved in. 

The first single. "Mi itch," which features Akon is 
available now on I- furies and gives an indication 
that Obie will not stray far from the comical and 
eyenical hip-hop thai made him what he is. 



Dashboard Confessional - tbd 



Dashboard Confessional. 

Frontman Chris CarTaba has 
glimpse of things on his small t 
the later pan of the spring semester at campuses 
nationwide. 

All sounds good thus far. A single has already 
been released to radio and the emo fans worldwide 
are ready to see wh.n turn Cur.iha takes next with 
his always strong lyrical workings. 





Army Of Freshmen - "Under the Radar" 



Army of Freshman is a little-known band that is 
only really popular (and known for that matter) by 
the Warped Tour-like crowds. 

Their last release came two years back and the 
fans of the punk-rap-techno oriented band have 
been feverishly awaiting a new disc which comes in 
the form of this summer's "Under the Rader." The 
disc itself has already been released in Japan. 

The first single and video "luliet" is out in the U.S. 
and has given fans a nice dose of something new. 



If little is known about Ice Cube's release, even 
less is known about what is next from Mr. "In Da 
Club." 

50 Cent has been all but completely silent 
about the new project which follows last year's 
"The Massacre." The rapper's following has been 
somewhat of a rollercoaster over the last year and 
it is hard to say what turn things will take from this 

The album may fall to late summer, but even that 
is an unknown at this point. 



50 Cent - tbd 




Ashley Parker Angel - -soundtrack to your Life" Justin Timberlake - tbd 




A strong mix of many musical efforts, t'arker 
Angel is a weird mi» ol Justin limbcrlake, Bo Bice 
and even a little John Mayer with his vocals and the 
styling of his music, '['he disc came out on May 16 
and hopefully will help sik-iue any doubters left. 




Besides with Cameron Diaz, a lot of people want 
to know where the former boy-bander has been for 
the past four years. Yes, it has been four years since 
the brilliant "Justified" graced our ears. 

And now he is back with, hopefully, a new pack 
of radio, dance and just all-around people-friendly 
tracks. And trust me when I say that this disc will not 
get lost in the shuffle of ex-boy band singers who will 
release CDs this summer (i.e. Ashley Parker Angel 



DMX - "Here We Go Again" 



Early November - 



"The Mother, The Mechanic, The Path" 




Ah, DMX. Will tin album. urn. ilk eomeout?That 
is the question here While his disc s and always lull 
of strong tracks, DMX's unique lifestyle breathes 
some mystery into what the Future will hold. 

No date is set for the release as of yet and his on- 
again off- again legal innibk-. may delay some things 

The one thing that is ior sun 1 is that he will need 




Drive-Thru Records' resident New Jersey emo- 
punk quartet is releasing their triple disc package on 
July 1 1 . And yes, I did say triple disc. 

Breaking all kinds of boundaries with three CDs 
being released as pan of the same release is just the 
ictngon the cake forThe Early November. The band has 
shown a strong progression over iheir many releases 
including 2003's first and only full-length release "The 
Room is Too Cold." They will likely continue to grow 
and be more unique on these discs. 



some amazing fighi 
sequences. Again, ihe acting wasin 
astounding; but with witty one-liners, 
kick-ass explosions and a chick that 
wouldn't die, I liked it. That's mainly 
why I'm excited about the last of the 



been fountl to treat mutation! 

Professor Xavier's X Men against and for all 

Magneto's Brotherhood. It should 

make for a fun trip to the theatre! 



- release dale lune 30. 

I don't know. I just don't know. I 
mean, the plot is weak, but it IS a 
Superman movie. It's centered on the 
return (obviously I of the Man of Sieel 
(Brandon lloulhi. Apparently, he's left 
us poor slobs on Earth to fend for 
ourselves. Rut he conies back • only to 
find the love of his life, Lois Lane (Kate 
fJoswonln, has moved on with her life. 
Add that to the fact thai Superman's 
arch nemesis (I really love [hat word!), 
Lex Luthor (Kevin Spacey), is fresh out 
of prison and has a few trick up his 
Superman once 



GOOD: "The Break-Up" — release 
date June 2. 

You may be asking why I deemed 
this highly anticipated movie starring 
love-birds Jennifer Aniston and Vince 
Vaughn as "good." five words: Jennifer 
Aniston and Vince Vaughn. Vaughn 



and you've got the makings ol a laugh 
out-loud comedy, 1 hope! 

The story itself is humorous. Brooke 
(Aniston) dumps Gary (Vaughn), but 
both refuse to move out of the condo 
they share. So, as in any good comedy. 
they lake advice from friends, family 
and even total strangers. Neither 
budges until they realize that they 
may not be fighting to get rid of the 
other, but, rather, to keep them. That 
just breeds silly, stupid situations and 
Vaughn's dry wit. Sure, ii may not rake 
in everyone's movie money, but it'll 
get mine. 

BAD: "The Fast and the Furious: 
Tokyo Drift" — release date June 16. 

Do I even need to tell you why this 
Is going to bad or the premise of this 
crap-fest? I didn't think so. 

UNDECIDED: "Superman Returns" 



se, it does have Kevin Spacey in it. 
i again, Spacey's presence didn't 



depressed by the fact thai a 



In the second of at 

yup. the last one come 

lext year). Captain lack Sparrow 

mny Depp) is back. This time, 

however, he has a blood debt to pay 
o (he infamous Davy Jones. As Jack 
wiggles his way in and out of danger, 
he mangles the wedding plans of Will 
Iurner lUrlando lilnunu and lli/ahelh 
Swarm (Keira Knightley). 

All right, I'll agree that it's a 
seemingly ludicrous plot. But wasn't 
the first one? 

UNDECIDED: "Lady in the Water" 
— release date July 21. 

The newest M. Night Shyamalan 



movie will either sink or blow his 
long list of stinkers out of the water. 
(I swear; aquatic puns are purely 
coincidental.) And, let's be real, he 
needs a good one. With "The Sixth 
Sense" quickly approaching its 10th 
birthday (in 2009), Shyamalan hasn't 
seen a theatrical mega-hit since. 
That's an extremely long time to be 
consistently bad. 

"Lady in the Water" isn't going to 
he similar to his others; at least I don't 
think it will. From what 1 can tell 
it's more of a story for children, (I 
know this because IMDb.com says he 
originally wrote the tale for his kids.) 
The plot goes a little something like 
this. Cleveland Heep (Paul i.iamatti) 
is the superintendent of an apartment 
building who rescues a young woman 
(Bryce Dallas Howard — Ron Howard's 
daughter) from the complex's pool. 
Soon, he discovers that she is actually 
a bedtime storybook character who 
is trying to return home. Cleveland 
&gt; help The 



tails in love with her. 

I've watched the trailer several 
times and it looks quite sweet, for 
lack of a better term. In true M. 

N'ight Shyamalan fashion, the trailer 
provokes curiosity I'd lie disappointed 



BAD: "Miami Vice" 
July 28. 



to nail a South Florida drug and arms 
trafficker. Blah, blah. blah. They get 
caught, blow things up, shoot people, 
have some sex (maybe not in that 
order) and then the end credits roll. 
Again I say to you, "Wow." 

August 

UNDECIDED: "World Trade 
Center" — release date Aug. 9. 

Oliver Stone is, like Paul Greengrass 
(director of April's "United 93 "[.making 
an assumption that the American 
public is ready to re-live the brutal 
attacks on our country; with his flick 
perilously premiering a little more 
than a month prior to the five year 
anniversary. 

Stone could be hailed or ostracized 
for his attempt. He's taking a vety big 

It's not that the story, written by 
Andrea Berloff (her first major motion 
picture), doesn't look touching. Ihe 



Officer William f. limeno (Michael 
Pena from "Crash") — the last two 
survivors pulled from Ground Zero. 
And it's definitely not that the cast is 
weak (along with the leading men. 
Maria Hello and Maggie Gyllenhaal co- 
star), 1 just don't know if, as a country, 
we're ready to be reminded of the 
devastation when, for many, : 



guy who was responsible for "Cellular" 
and "Final Destination 2") are serious 
about this movie. 

It didn't look like a spoof a la the 
"Scary Movie" franchise. 

it just to have 



And finally, I wanted to end i 



the first r 
long years ago: "Clerks II." As it will 
be released the Friday before the fall 
semester begins, I think it goes without 
saying that we should consider this 
our last summer movie hurrah. 

Starring Brian O'Halloran as Dante 



s Randal as those 
lazy guys we fell in love with all 
e years ago, it thrusts us back into 
■ lives after 10 years have passed, 
'ue to a fire, the guys are off to 
ore new horizons ... flipping 









r minds and hearts. 



cop drama, but a movie made almost 
20 years after it went off ihe air? Unit's 
pushing it ... far. 1 mean, Colin Farrell 
is a joke anyway. And one question for 
Jamie Foxx: are you TRYING to render 
your Oscar obsolete? Because you're 
on that road, heading full speed ahead 
to Sucksville! 

The movie follows detectives lames 
"Sonny" Crockett (Farrell) and Ricardo 
Tubbs (Foxx) a 



date Aug. 18. 

No, I'm nc 

but sadly, I'm 



kidding 1 wish I was. 
not Samuel 1- Jackson 
Margulit 



l-be located in the 
sky. It's about — what else — snakes 
on a plane. Shocker, I know, 

I watched the trailer and had to 
cover my mouth as I was sitting in 



Kevin Smith movie. 
Kevin Smith (duh), Jason Lee and 
his wife Jennifer Schwalbach Smith 
just to name a few. There are also 
some newbies to the Smith Empire 
- Rosario Dawson, Wanda Sykes and 

After watching several trailers, I'm 
even more thrilled about this movie. I 

giggled like a schoolgirl. It promises to 
be relatively ci 



- what it took t 






tfall. 









Just for the record, 1 totally avoided 
talking about Tom Cruise's newest lame 
and completely narcissistic attempt to 
be a semi -respect able movie star on 
purpose. 



GET INVOLVED! 

Join Student 
Government! 



Did you know that research shows there is a direct link 
between student involvement and success in college? 

Did you know that you can boost your resume significantly by 
j» becoming involved in co-curricular and 
^ff extra-curricular activities while in college? 

fl Did you know that getting involved is one way 

to have fun while learning in college? 
What is one GREAT way to get all this experience at once? 

-Join IPSGA~ 

The Indiana-Purdue Student Government Association (IPSGA) is 
Comprised of a Student, Senate, Student Activities Board (SAB), and 
Judicial Court. The Senate and SAB groups are traditionally very 
active and work for the benefit of IPFW students. 



The Judicial Court is responsible for working with all policy and 
procedural issues pertaining to the IPSGA. 

The Student Senate is set up as a government structure, and is 
the voice of the students at IPFW. The Senate makes 
decisions about which groups to provide funding for and 
provides various types of support for student organizations. 

The SAB is the programming body of IPSGA. It creates and 
implements programs for students to attend 
and participate in throughout the year. 



ALL YOU NEED TO DO TO JOIN SENATE 
OR SAB IS FILL OUT A PETITION 



Upcoming Events/Activities: 

Senate Meetings: 

The first one this summer is June 26th at noon. During the academic year, 
the Senate mettings are the 1st &amp; 3rd Monday of every month at noon. 

SAB Meetings: 



The first one this summer is be announced, but will be very soon! 

During the academic year, the SAB meetings are the 2nd &amp; 4th Monday 

of every month. 

Look for SAB at the Wizards game on June 9th! Free tickets in^the 

IPSGA office while they last! 

Look for IPSGA involvement at Freshmen Fest, August 18th! 



Contact the IPSGA office, 
Walb Union Rm. 225 (260)481-6586 



The Communis i &gt;i&lt; 




of biblical proportions 




student at Boston University. He was 
taken aback by the stories and the images 
they played in his mind. 

ikingly different t' 



That wi 



Tii.ni nicknamed " 1 he Reverend-" 

So in 2001, at age 26, Smith created 
"The Brick Testament," a Web site con- 
taining stories straight from the Bible, 
depicted using LEGO bricks and people. 



Solomon. 

"(It is) a good thing to ij 
knowledge of the conten 
in a way that is fun and 
appealing while staying 



i of the Web site. 
The area touches on "when to stone your 
completion of the children," "proof of virginity," "the occult," 
:. In the Old Testament, he "rape" and. many other topics that many 
: his attention at the lesser do not usually see as being addressed in 
; of King Sail, David and the Bible. 






"he s; 



I lie i: 



1 launch had just s 



of Genesis ; 
expected to be very big. However, Smith 
says he received upwards of 20,000 hits 
in the first two weeks after the site went 



that this project 
ae exacdy what I 
3 retell the Bible's 
i grab peo- 



ber the negative ones 
by about 100-to-l, the 

majority ul (he negative 
responses are from peo- 
ple who find it inappro- 
priate n&gt; illustrate a holy 



of the Bible God gave Moses are the r 

M 

I would estimate that 1 have 

spent about ten to twelve- 
thousand dollars on LEGOs over 
the past five years. Most of my 
purchases are geared toward 
what I anticipate i'll need for 
future installments.^ 










stories of the Bible as on 
lessly retold ones." 

So Smith began work c 
which today contains 222 illustrated s 



.Her 



v has aboui hall &lt;•] ihe r 



a children's toy ^ ^^^— ^^^— ^^— ^^^— 

or those who object to 

The Brick Testaments frank portrayal of society should rightly be governed and 

the Bible's sexual content. judged," Smith said. 

But according to Smith, the certain "And yet it seems to me that most 

shock value is something that he does people who hold that belief are ignorant 

expect and makes him more proud of of the majority of those laws and com- 

what he does. mandments." 

"Having been quite shocked by much Smith says that "The Law" section is 
of the Bible's content myself, Id take thai illustrated in a way that provides a view of 
as a good sign that I am being faithful to what today's world would be like if these . 
my presentations of the stories as they laws were followed religiously. 
were originally written." he said. I think And while there are the negative feed- 
people have become used to seeing illus- backs in some areas, Smith just plans to 
[rated versions ul ihe Bible thai lake a free focus on the positive and the future of a 
hand in altering scripture to make it more Web site with a unique new approach. 



Blame imM 



Local band continues to make good, prepare for 
another do-it-yourself summer tour 



him, it's been like their first release 
and shordy thereafter they have 
been able to get signed 



Late in the year. 



their niche on a national h 

Fort Wayne has never 

exception to that rule. 






has released two E.Rs and a full- 
length album but has had to fight 
often with the perils of an ever- 
changing lineup. 

Yet standing strong are Jonny 



bass player and dr 

group is looking to take Blame it on 

Rio to new and exciting highs. 

In 2005, the group released 
their latest disc "The Art of Saving 
Yourself," an E.R released by 
Thriving Records and recorded 
with well -respected producer John 
Nacliero in New York. Nacliero 
has also worked with bands My 
Chemical Romance. Senses 1 ail 
and The Ataris, among c 







| get 



"It was hard because Andrew 
had been with us, not since the 
beginning, but since the beginning 
of when we really started taking 
this seriously," noted Hatfield. 

But then the band added bassist 
Brandon Shaw and drummer Aaron 
Barker after their band No Call To 
Arms split up. The two bands had 
previously released a split-album 
together in 2004. The two, coming 
from a harder musical background, 
added a unique new side to Blame 
it on Rio and have fit it quite well 



Rio," Barker said." "Brandon and I R,0: B,am e '* On Rio's Josh Hatfield perfo 
have always been iffy and making at IPFW's Skip-A-ThuTSday event with the 

sure that this is the way that we group at the end of April. 



.i tided with, Hatfield said. "Almost 
every band that has recorded with 



-Blame^L-Ria 



Are you sure that f 
you want to get 
into that water? 

Mr. Rodgers' Neighborhood 



I'll bet all of you are happy as 
clams. The endless amounts of 

spent walking with loved ones 
or outside playing a rousing 
game of baseball in the local 

Or swimming. 

Ah. swimming - the one 
summertime activity in which 
everyone can say is their 
favorite. The cool, refreshing 
dips either in a backyard 
swimming pool, in a lake or in 
the ocean always remind me 
of one thing. The movie "Jaws." 
Which is the reason to this day 
why I cannot set foot in the 
ocean without thinking before 
I do so. 

I first saw this yarn of aquatic 
terror when I was a mere five 
years old. From beginning to 
end, 1 was terrified by the idea of 



death that usually consists of 
bone-crushing biting, grinding 
of major organs by large teeth 
and lots, oh yes, lots of blood. 
Watching as a buxom blonde 
is dragged tale over tea-kettle 
through the ocean while 
screaming bloody murder, only 
to be pulled underneath the 
shimmering water's surface 
while it rums crimson around 
her really prompted me to go 
out and jump right into the 









a great achievement 

, it being the official 

ner blockbuster, but 

a spot as the only 



there have been 
that have scared me or that 
have messed around with my 
phobias. "Arachnophobia" 

► RODGERS: Page A4 




TheCommunk.uor 



Featuring Funding ■• • 

Nick West and Justin Kenny discuss the funding 
of the Athletic Department, PAGE B 3 



8 of the best 
moments for athletics in the 
2005-2006 season. PAGE B4 






5. QUINT1N CAROUTHERS -An old man in terms 
oflPFW basketball. Carouthers spent his fourth season as 

a strong-finishing -.wing man in averaging 1 1.4 points per 
game and scoring a tarci'i-high 2 I agamsi North Dakota 
State &lt; arouthers was named All-Independent Honorable 
Mention this year as a junior. 

6. COLIN LUNDEEN -The junior setter finished 

with 1 ,280 assists (seventh in career assists at IPFW) in 107 
games, .in average ni I l.'ii. [lit Despite an admit ted sub- 
par final I our game agamsi UCLA, I undeen was pivotol to 
iIil- Mastodons' success this season, setting outside hitter 
C.J. Maciasto second team honors in All-American voting. 

7. TYLER BEST - Highly regarded coming into the 

season, Best provided fPKWsniiK real stability in the post 
this season despite being hampered with injuries. The 
junior averaged 9.7 points and 4.7 rebounds per contest 
on his way u&gt; being named All-Independent Honorable 
Mention. Best scored a career high 35 against Longwood. 

8. MATT FRY -At the first ever lPFW-hostedgolf 
meet. Fry tied for 15th place at +4 to help IPFW to a fourth 
place limsh In I be spring. Iry lied lor 22nd place, shunting 
a 229 at the Eastern Kentucky Spring Invitational. Though 
often not tin- mp M'l W performer, fry stayed consistent 
through both the fall and spring seasons. 

9. HUNTER PARIS -The dude can run. He finished 
tops for IPFW in all but one cross country meet last fall. 

He also took first place in the St. Louis Cross Country-only 

National Championship m September. The news gets even 
better; last year he was only a sophomore. 

10. SERDAR SlKCA -The anchor middle hitter 

for coach Arnie Hall. sikca broke the school's all-time block 
assisl record (his year and tallied up HI block assists this 
year. Sikcaalsorecorded.il) solo blocks and was second on 
the team in kills with 2-17 on his way to his ihird straight All- 
( onterenccl irst ieam selection. 



5. KACIE STONE -The catcher became 

threat for die Softball team this year, batting . 
starting in all 12 games she played in during die 



6. Johnna Lewis-Carlisle 

to Start her career on the right loot. Lcwis-C 

women's basketball team in scoring in 14 of 
this season on her way to being named sei oud 
Independent. I he speech soph., more guard scot. 
23 and 22 points in four straighi games mid- 

7. JENNA BEACHY -She had the highest batting 
average (.338) of anyone who started more than 13 games 

and led the team in hits (44). : 
tall 44 games from ll'RV 



8. Erika Leitzke i, 

blue, the senior setter played in 
to help the women's volleyball le 

tallied 1,171 assists III. I per game! and the 
All-Independent player also led 
and was fourth 

9. SACHI JANEK As a freshman. Jan. 

number one or number two singles all yeai 

regular season with a dominant singles victory again: 
Wright Stale of the I Ion/on I cague. Janck 



10.ANGIE SUEL-Suel literally 

nowhere to be a force lor women's irai k and Held this vc-.ir. 

I he fresh n broke loin records a! (be Akron Open on I eb 

4 and continued her streak right ibrough the end of the 
season selling three more marks at Michigan Stale when 
she participated in running, throwing and Jul 




, 



E^3 



RIGHT: Sophomores Josh 
Stewart and Brock Ullrich 

go up to block a shot by 
UCLA's Steve Klosterman. 

BELOW: IPFW players 
shake hands and thank 
fans who attended the 
Final Four in University 
Park, Pennsylvania after 
the Mastodons' 3-0 loss 
to eventual National 
Champions UCLA on May 4 




Senior Mike Daiga 
00 Senior year, last shot, last rally.. .you have to 

enjoy any shot that you have. There aren't 

very many people that can do that. ^V 




The Final Fight 



RIGHT: As the match with UCLA dwindles down, 
IPFW players (from left to right) Mike Morict, Dan 
McNerney.Vitor Oliveira, Brock Ullrich, Michael 
Quinones, Mike Daiga and Josh Stewart look on 
with arms on eachotners shoulders in hopes of a 
Mastodon comeback. 

Photoby BriannaBelfotd M.h. II.... i ftp| 





ABOVE: Seniors Serdar Sikca and Mike Daiga hold 

up the MIVA Tournament championship trophy 

fotlwing the teams April 29 win over Loyola-Chicago 

that earned them a birth in the Final Four. 

RIGHT: Down by one point in the third game, senior 

Mike Daiga prepares to serve. IPFW scored four 

points off of Daiga's serve late in the third game. 



L^p^^^ j|_ 


UCLA 0:00 IPFW 

28 "&lt;" » » 97 

HW 25 23 * f 

XL** W&gt; ML BUI IK) 
,n S"L. ! • 1 1 MnW 7 
10 Scofl 9 14 3 Mactas 13 2 B 

lir in jk iir 


., 




^jt*1" i^^ 8 


■ i 


1 ■ H 


■AlilVAt 'mt 




a ^ivMi .. 


w 


H5P rfc ' a 5 B ~-'i = ^ mma 


■i^Nn 


^rnrfv' ■ » »»■ ■■— 




. «- 


. 



EZ3 



|i A 0696969 OJ? 



IWhereJhe Money 





West Point 

By Nick West 

nwest@ipfwcommunii 



general scholarships which total just for the 



i defines succe; 
u-thing desired, planned c 



from the 2004-05 actual budget, which 
was audited on Jan. 26. 2006. ['he total 
-funds available were 54,118,372 and 
expenditures were $4,124,249 - a deficit 
f $5,877. 
"Not too bad." athletic director Mark 
©before pullingout a calculator 
e percentile of the 



i indoor i 
student services building planned 
near future. The 
remaining four million is to be used for 
scholarships. 

Mid-Con or Independent school's athleli 
department funding from their rcspceliv 



deficit difference - .001427 to be e 

n games, manifest But why was there an $800,064 total 

a sense of achievement for coaches and expenditure drop-off from 2004-05 to 

student-athletes and even create a fan 2005-06? 

bas f- That drop-off is about one-fifth of the 

Another way tn measure success is if total funding - a lot for a number over 

these athletic programs catch the eve of lour nullum Ihe main difference I could 

a conference and as a result IPFW gains find came in the "Institutional Support" 




category. In 2004-05, this 



affiliation. This will make for much 

game scheduling and allow the athletic for Si ,085,521. But the 

department to operate more independently for 2005- 



TheMid-Coni 
fields eight members 
exited on April 21. This leaves the door 
open for IPFW's chance to finally leave the 



tandpoint. 

itConferencecurrently 
e Chicago 



audited 

number 

,910. Granted, 



Independet 



So, 



ranks after live years and join 
But the reality of the " 

IPFW is not in a conference, 

s scheduling conflicts and a 
operates differently from a 

ffiliated" 

urgum 



the coaches and playe 
talent from programs here at 
Independent IPFW. What is the 
remaining feature that attributes 
to the success or lack of 
of specific athletic programs; 

. Where is the 
many scholarship 
based on the money given 
program? How much can be spent 
uniforms, equipment, travel, food 

Breaking it down 
According to 
operating budget obtained from the 



IPFW Faculty Senate, the IPFW 
department had $3,358,012 tota 
available. The total estimated expendi 




athletic department budge 

"In the records that it requests from 
us, and the material it requests from us, 
it is not a true accurate financial picture," 
Pope said. "Again, nor is it meant to be. 
be a discussion of gender 
equity." 

Pope cited Orthopedics Northeast (ONE) 
medical company that offers trainers for 



pared to the IPFW Faculty Senate's 



Women's Basketball 



Senate's 2U04-05 

budget? Well, the USDH has 

the exact same number for 

deficit. The total expenses 

$3,545,299. The expenses were 

$3,539,422. Voila, there is the 

$5,877. Coincidence? I think not 

Regardless of what the USDF defines 

as expenses and revenues and what the 

IPFW Faculty Senate and Pope defines as 

" expenses, the final number is 



officially competing in the 
Division I ranks beginning in JOUJ In fact, 
funds total funds available has jumped from 
-" $1,925,047.10 in 2001-02 to the $3,358,012 
estimated for 2005-06. 
Under- funded? 
But is the athletic departm 



Still [Ill's 

here is how IPFW compares to Mtd-'Con 



going by the USUI, report, 



was lor scholarship expenses i. 
breakdown of funding for each athletic 
program, see the graphics on this page). 
The estimated total funds available 



a whole 
under-funded? Without a conference, 
there certainly isn't much revenue brought 



i 2004-05. It lost $422,480. 
kland. Oral Roberts and 
i the only teams to 



though Pope told me the athletic 



Roberts n 
up and earned a berth in tl 
Invitation Tournament. That i 



income i $195,000), guaranteed community, donated five million dollars t( 
ie ($275,000), institutional support the IPFW athletic department earlier diis from. Chicago State, who left on April 3 
910)andchancellorscholarshipsand year. lie requested one million be used 



► MONEY Page 86 I «**W8twth 











r 


J 118.660 
™"*y05-'06 Funding: 

1 w.m 


.",'„&gt; 


«»«*r •MOOCH 






'.':" 


,Swnta,S2.200S 







M/W Cross 

n 


Country 


Js 


'l)i. FniHiiiu 

HI. 700 


ottdilnjj both the HK-,. ■ 



Athletic Dept. 


• Spot 


/TJ| 'OS-OesXry; 

• J Not Available 



Who gets the best bang for their buck at IPFW 



Cup of J 



Well, since my esteemed colleagues here at 
The Communicator have put a dynamite spread 
together about finances and salaries here at 
IPFW, I thought I would have some fun. Let's 
break it down, the hang lor the buck for each of 
s that have a 

country and golf). Here's the formula: lake the 



Men's basketball 
Coach: Dane Fife 
2006 record: 10-18 
2006 salary: $80,40i 



15-plus win season happens n 
be looking tor a pay increase, and a little ove 
eight giand a win will look like chump change. 



baseball 

i: Billy Gernon 

record: 20-24 (with e 



Analysis: Gernon has made strides with the 
baseball program and. quite frankly, he might be 
underpaid ias well as his program being under- 
funded). If the baseball program continues to 
improve and n-nd legii prospects into the MLB 
Amateur Drafts, demon could begin to hear 
offers from bigger schools and if IPFW wants to 
hold unto him. they will have m up his salary. 



2006 salary: ! 

Pay per win: $5,857 

Analysis: Give Stefankiewic/ some credit, the 
guy has to run two separate programs almost 
by himself Meanwhile, the men's and women's 
basketball teams get a buttload of assistant 
coaches. Hopefully soon IPFW will be able to 
hire a coach for one of the soccer teams and 
Stefankiewicz can concentrate on running just 
one. He also does a helluva job with the Soccer 



Analysis: One of the big values in the IPFW 
coaching ranks. Burns also handles double duty 
in terms of coaching both tennis programs and 
does it quite well. He continues to recruit well and 
get a lot of qualin athletes into both programs. 

Men's volleyball 

Coach: Amie Ball 

2006 record: 23-7. NCAA Final Four 
Participant 

2006 salary: $73,994 

Pay per win: $3,217 

Analysis: Probably the only coach in this list 
worth EVERY cent, Ball returned the program 
to an elite level this season. He should be the 
highest -paid coach at IPFW. hut we all know how 
basketball lakes precedence. Lvcn with a high 
salary, his pay per win is quite low. All in all, one 
hell of a model American. 

Women's basketball 

Coaches: Bruce Patterson (resigned), Chris 



Patterson-S62, 



-16; Women: 17-13 



with his performance this season His one win 
before resigning gave him his entire salary In ihe 
meantime. Paul made an immediate impact on 
the program and was hired to be the head coach 
for next season. A decent bang-for-the bm k for 
IPFW in Paul. 



Women's softball 
Coach: Keith Fisher 
2006 record: 11-33 
6 salary: $18,150 



quite low. but that's only because the salary ti 
begin with is low. It's a struggling program thai 
continually loses players to leaving the team. If 
the salary is ihis low, it would not be hard to find 
someone beltet for (his position Softball has 
SJh.tjnu unite scholarship money than baseball, 
yet the bang lot the buck is only $350 less. 
Women's volleyball 
Coach: Kelley Hartley-Hutton 
2006 record: 24-6 
200G salary: S51.000 
Pay per win: $2,125 

Analysis: This woman deserves a raise! Maybe 
she has already gotten one, who knows. Anyway, 
the bang-tor ihc-buck is impressive, and she 
is quickly turning the program into one that 
reloads instead of rebuilds. It is known she has 
received offers from other schools in (hepastand 
she most likely will continue to get them in the 
future. I ley Pope, she's a keeper. 

So, there you have it. It's all so clear when 
you break it down numbers-wise I'm sure Mark 
Pope and ( batuellor Wariell will use this column 
as a "cheat sheet'' on how much they are getting 
for their money they are throwing out. 




E33I 



August 18-21, 2005 



Soccer Showcas 
ai ihe Hefner Soccer Fields. The men fell 
in a close contest with nationally ranked 
Northwestern while the women upended 



Stnifn I-.ilii. in.i Sun/,] breaks the 
school record in kills that stood for 
live years. Sou/a captured the record 
held by Ultra Douglas ( 1 ,895 kills) 
againsi southern Mississippi. Souza 



September 10 



October 17-18 



IPFW Fall Classic saw the men 
place fourth of 7 schools and 
women finish seventh of nine 
progams. Nathan Hoff finished 
third overall for the men. 



September 23 



Conference, which the 
men's tennis team is already a member 
of. The union also allows scheduling 
arrangements with the conference for 

women's votleyhall and baseball. 





ins the USC lbunuiment 

I- 1 victor)' over Ui.ih Valley 

I State. Sophomore Anika Apar is the 



Skip &amp; Trip: A witty year needs a witty year in review 



Witty Banter 

Skip Hooligan &amp; Trip McFeely 

sporu@lpfwcommunicatot.org 

Skip; Back after a giant hiatus, in which 
many of you probably won't read the fare- 
well for Skip and Trip, but we guarantee 
that we will bum any bridges we haven't yet 
and will continue on the journalism excel- 
lence we have set by The Communicator. 

Trip: Sorry about us being away; we 
were busy planning the Brian Miller and 
Sarah Laib's going-away parties. It's tough 
to find a decent place to rent llamas from. 

Skip: Yes indeed; I hear there will be 
pizza box bowling and sub eating contests, 
though. Probably stolen food and drink as 
Well for the Miller reception. Well, in our 
last issue we will recap our top five stories 
of the year, a preview of next year in each 
sport that we cover on a semi-regular basis 
and give some shoutouts to retiring seniors 
that we like, and to the others, we barely 
knew you. 

Trip: It's our semester-ending Skip and 
Trip bash. So grab a nice alcoholic bever- 
age, sit back in your inflated sofa chair 
you stole from the liquor store and read 
ining column. 



e the IPFW athletics 



Skip: We pushed for the dismissal o 
Brian Miller in marketing and it also hap 
pened. 

Trip: It's like, 
suggestions box. 

Skip: I think we are, and recently we were 
awarded the Edward Blatchford Excellence 
in Writing and Wavy Hair Award, too. 

Trip: Our walls here at the Skip and 



Skip: I'm not sure what IPFW is going 
to do without us next year. I'm sure there 
will be a collective sigh of relief from a few 
people in the upper office. 

Trip: They know they love us. We write 
things they cannot begin to think they can 

Skip: Indeed to those in the upper 
office we like, including Ron. coaches Ball, 
Hartley and staff, Paul and staff, Gernon, 
we hope the best for you in the upcoming 

year. Am I missing anyone Trip? 



Trip i 



Skip: Sound', good. 
number five being Skip 
IPI Walhlclics. ism thai right Inp' 

Trip: We hrnughi about mam, 
es in our time in the pages ol rh 
pnblii .ition. In the future, 1 am ; 
will be known as* the Rosa Parks 
Communicator. 

Skip: I agree. Had when we firsi i 
our partnership we said men's vo 
was destined lor the final four, and I 



Off 1 



and the subsequent season the team had. 
Wasn't too shabby, wouldn't you say? 

Skip: Better than 1 imagined. We both 
aren't the biggest Dane Fife fans out there. 
I'd take Michael Lewis here anytime, any- 
way But you have to commend what he 
did this year when I thought they didn't 



two redshirts and a couple luCo big guys 
should make next season a dandy one. 

Skip: The loss of Posley hurts; he was a 
steady point guard for the Mastodons in 
the latter part of the season, but next year, 
a softer schedule should equal to see you 
later Dane Fife. 

Trip: You can't really picture him stay- 
ing here if a higher mid-major offers some 
more cash. He loves to say he wants to 
build a program at IPFW. but come on ... 

Skip: I agree. He'd be a fool to stay 
unless we get into the Mid-Con in 2007-08. 
That would be the only thing to keep him 
around - a potential tourney bid. 

Trip: And a bigger paycheck. 

Skip: So, moving to number three, one 
thing we lobbied for throughout the spring, 
the hiring of Chris Paul as the women's 
basketball coach. 

Trip: The women's team showed great 
headway down the stretch when Paul took 
over for the floundering coach Patterson. 
The future is a bit brighter for the team 
with Paul at the helm. 

Skip: 1 agree; he's young and a go-getter. 
And he has a style of play that works with 
the right type of athletes. With a talented 
backcourt coming back, the women's team 
should be ready for a run next year at 15, 
what do you think? 

Trip: I would say more like 10. But then 
again, we have been wrong before. Hahaha, 

Skip: Haha, not wrong usually. Number 
two is something that really chapped my 
ass this year and we will cover in definite 
sarcastic undertones - the Notre Dame 
I the subsequent falling of 



*KJi 




r|#l 




te* ,0 ^ 


. 


WBT A 


r A JH 


L\. 1 * /~2 




ill H 


t T li 


- ™ 


%* 


&gt; 


ItH 





MIA. 



for handicapped people 



" Posley and the addition of the 



tion! It was a travesty ranking 
► SKIP &amp; TRIP: Page B6 



It is never easy to say goodbye 



In Alt Directions 



It is a hard thing to think about as I sit here typing, but it 
is true: my time is up. This is indeed my last column for The 
&lt; unimunicator it's my turn to ride into that preverbal sunset. 

I started here as a wide-eyed freshman in the fall of 2002 and 
have had a rollercoasTer college .ind Communicator career ever 
since. I have had owi li in byline-, .mil have served in almost every 
position there is to serve in here, but I have always been covering 
sports. The athletics offered here at IPFW have been refreshing to 
witness, the athletes and coaches: superb to work with. 

So this is my goodbye and my heartfelt thank you. 

One of the firsi thing-, thai athletic director Mark Pope said 
to me when I skittishly entered his office as a staff writer at age 
18 was that he was happy to have me aboard. He immediately 
made me feel welcome into the athletic family. And no matter 
what I have done over the years to upset him or other staff in the 
department, he has always been dure to forgive It is rare to find 
someone like Mark who. while upset, understands that I only do 
my job, even if it at some point comes in conflict with him or his 

Probably my most vivid memory of this comes with men's 
volleyball coach Arnie Bail. As a sophomore, I wrote an edition 
i entitled 'Time to Teach the Coaches,' In 



which I stated that I felt coaches should 
to the general student than just coach. Needless 
But thanks to Mark, things 



of a purpose 
say, Arnie was 
re patched up 



teven if it did take a year). 

Coach Ball has done a great deal for me over the years as I 
have covered the men's volleyball program. The 2006 Final Four 
was the hist event I covered here and 1 believe that is only lifting. 
M\ highest highs and my lowest lows as a writer have come with 
this team. And at the end of the day, I can honestly say that it was 
an honor to have the mens volleyball beat. 

thanks to my affiliation with 



0: 


■f 1 

Irtffr 

J^^\ ' 1 F 1 



Photo by Eugene Harding/ ehardingS*ipfwcoi 



LEADER: Sophomore transfer OeWitt Scott shined for 
a on-again/off-again men's basketball program. 



Please 0% 
Recycle ^^ 
this paper 



Great courses to 
/ try this summer! 

Show your student i.d. and get 

$2 off 




THE LAST WALK: I guess the next exile would be r 



i The Communicator, always gn VA \ rl 



n for the kindness h 



. Rudy Yovich, Mark 



I wish I could 

Gates Center t 

too much room. But you all know 

have to say it. But there are a few that I havi 

because they have done so much for mt 

I'upr Hilly l.emon. Dane Pile, leff [ungate 

Ball — you all have never offered anything but a helping hand. 

I It.ii generosity has been very proactive and has made each visit 

to Gates that much better than the last. 

And the athletes have made it so much better. This university 
- *-— e student-athletes who are thoughtful and 



3 proud of where the sports s 



And here I 
since Nick AJtman and I did it all back in the 
year. My time helping make the sports sectior 
section in the paper was by far something that 

Andtl 



■l tll.lr, 



generous people. I c 

Diet oinmunicator' 

Mike Daiga, David Simon or C.j. Macias 

In association with that, 1 have had a lot of 
" made a lot of good friends over roughly four 



like without the people like 






newspaper. This place has even been i 
with my two besi friends from high school, Tim Rodgers and Alex 
DeVinney-Stoner, and make new bonds in our adult lives I have 
made friends with peers, those Who are elder and those who are 
my junior. And each of them has left a lasting mark on my life. 

One person moreso than the others will always mean a lot 
to me and my development as a journalist and that is former 
Editor-in-Chief Scott Lawson. At a time in my life that I could 
not count on most people to do much more than give up on 
me, Scott was there to help guide me. His knowledge in life and 



at was thanks to the Fab four: myself, Anthony Maurer, 
Nick West and Justin Kenny, who have held a killer-grip on the 
section for the pasi three year- Nick and liistm both have and do 
work in the professional world of journalism and are an asset that 
few, if any, college papers have. I truly hope that these two have 
learned as much from me over the past years as I have learned 
from them. Because if so, then I have passed on a lot to them. 

1 feel truly blessed as I write this column (and yes. there 
are a few last tears welling up in my eyes), one last story at my 
desk in Walb 215, because I have experienced something at 
The Communicator that few people have in their entire lives. 1 
have found hope, passion, desire and a second family who I will 
always be able to count on to be there for me, just as 1 would be 
a I ride off into the sunset lor not as the case may 
e results for future staffs 

I will miss this paper greatly as it has been the major part of 
my college life, but it is time to move on no matter how hard it is 
for me to do. From the bottom of my heart, I thank everyone who 
nude tins possible tor so long. 

It's been a long, fun road: time to say goodbye. 




Ej^ffi'-i! 



January 20, 2006 

IPFW. along with five other 
Division I Independent 
1 programs, 



of the United Basketball 
Conference. The UBC, 
■ according to athletic 
director Mark Poj. 
of a scheduling agreement 
between IPFW, Texas Pan 
Am, North Dakota St., South 
Dakota St., Utah Valley 
State and the New Jersey 
Institute of Technology that 
guarantees five home and 
five road games for 
school beginning ir 




March 1 

coach Dane FitV \&lt;-.n\-~ the 

th a 55-54 win 

UT-Pan American. It is the 

the program went 

that they have won 10 



February 18-March 3 



the Hilliard Gates Sports Center or at the Memorial 

In the run, the team defeated le\;is Pan American. 

Wayne State, North Dakota State. Utah Valley Stale and Texas 




All-Academic recognition 'represents 
continued commitment to excellence' 



Sports Wrap 



The IPFW women's cross country team finished 14th 
in the NCAA Division I All-Academic ranks, according 
to the Women's Intercollegiate Cross Country Coaches 
Association. 

The Mastodons had a team grade-point average 
of 3.57. Southeastern ( (inference member Mississippi 
State was first with a team grade-point average of 3.78. 

"This is a great honor for our team," coach Mike 
Fruchey said in a press release. "It represents our 
continued commitment to excellence in the 

Women's tennis 

Sophomore Hanna Hager was one of two NCAA 
Division I Independent women's tennis student-athletes 
with a 4.0 grade-point average and as a result was named 
to the All-Academic team. 

Hager is a psychology major. 

IPFW senior Beth Miller (3.93) and juniors lessica 
Vervynckt (3.94) and Lisa Bartelheim (3.5) were also 
named to the team. 

Texas A&amp;M Corpus Christi placed the most on the 
list with five. Northern Colorado had four; Savannah 
State and Providence three; Luneunod, South 






Photo by Lana Mabbitt/ Imabhni ■■ ipKvo 



RUN: Cross Country runners Ashley Ritchey 
and Kristen Simpson practice in the fall. 



Kayla Vargo, Natalie Clark . 



State and UC-Davis had t 



have been removed oil ilie softh.ill 
and !e.\,is Piin-AmerieJn pl,i&lt;|nes thai l.neh onto the outfield wall at the IPFW 
softball field, 
n history In the past, na 

softball plaques a 



Women's softball 

Though IPFW softball coach Keith Fisher could not 
be reached for verification or comment on the issue, it 
appears four softball players have elected to leave the 
program. 



the program for one reason or the other. Senior Jenna 
Beachy's name has been removed in the tradition of 
graduation so another student-athlete's name will be 
placed on the plaque where her name was before next 



Posley exits, men add 
JuCo recruit Burrows 



With the departure of freshm, in point 
guard D.J. Posley, IPFW was able to use 
the available scholarship to sign 6-foot- 
8, 205-pound forward Jaraun Burrows 
from Volunteer Slate Community 
College in Gallatin. 
Tennessee. 

Burrows, a 
native of Nassau, 
Bahamas, averaged 
20.1 points, 9.4 



really knows how lo play the game." 

Posley. who was not recruited hy life, 
left for undisclosed reasons. According 
to Chicagohoops.com he received his 
release on March 23. Fortwayneplayers. 
net reported Posley will transfer to |ohn 
A. Logan Community College in Chicago 
- I'osley's hometown, 

Posley joins junior Mohammed 
Esseghir as the only two players who 
have left the program under Fife, 

Those numbers are slight compared 
to the mass exodus the program had 
experienced in each of the two previous 

Seven players left before the 2005- 



K A 



blocks per game 



I 



season). 
Neither 

readied lor 
Burrows 






Team All-America 
and named NJCAA 
Region VII Player of 
the Year in 2005-06. 
"Jaraun is the 
type of player that 
we were looking 
for to finalize this 
class," IPFW coach 
Dane Fife said in a 
urruwi press re]eaS( , .., je 

adds athleticism 
id a scoring punch in the post. Not 

ily is he a quality scorer, but he is also 
i excellent passer from the post, a 
eat rebounder and a shot blocker. (He) 



eligibility remainine. .mil, according to 
Fife, had a good visit and fit in well with 
current players. 

"We expect Jaraun to be a positive 
addition to our program both on and off 
the court as we continue building our 
program here al H'l W," Fife said. 

According to an IPFW press release, 
Burrows received interest from UNLV, 
Purdue, Morehead State and Arkansas 
State before choosing IPFW. 

Burrows joins forward Pat Lepper as 
the other signee for n 



The spring 
organizations 



; 2006 staff of The Communicator, along with these 
and businesses welcome the incoming freshman class 



.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Win Big at the Library 



Helmke Library offers SOAR students 

a chance to win a valuable prize. Last 

year it was an iPOD Shuffle. What will it 

be this year? Whatever the prize, count 

on the library to make it easy to get 

what you want. 



Less Effort. More Results. 



Dr. Ben Gates, Campus Minister 




Becoming Real with God, 
Ourselves and Others 

www.ipfw.edu/ministry 



Golfview Apartments 



New Name ~ Same Great Prices 

Located at 

6500 St. Joe Road 

Fort Wayne, IN 46835 

Across from Shoaff Park 



(260) 492-9272 

www.apartments.com/golfviewlN 
*Ask about our GPA discount* 



IPFW Student Alumni Association 

&amp; 

IPFW Alumni Association 



Helping students and graduates 
connect career-wise! 

Walb Union, Room 125 

(260)481-6807 



www.ipfw.edu/alumni 



Center for Women 

&amp; 
Returning Adults 



Center for Women &amp; Returning Adults (CWRA) 

serves as an advocate for women and non-traditional 

students by providing academic, financial and 

personal assistance while simultaneously 
familiarizing them with the network of services 

available on campus or in the community 

Robin Newman, Director 

Walb Union Rm. 120 
(260) 481-6029 



www.ipfw.edu/cwra 




IPFW/Parkview Health and Wellnes Clinic 

Walb Union Room 234 260-481-8748 
http://www, ipfw.edu/clinic 



IPFW Student Housing 



Summer Fun 
at 




Village Bowl Oe 

1710 Bluffton Rd. 6 
(260) 747-0611 



m 

Provides comprehensive health services tomeetthe 

medical and psychological needs of students, faculty 

and staff . 

Monday-Thursday8-5 Fridays 8-12 

Special hours, which will be posted, are in effect for 

holidays , sum mer and semester breaks 








" MeeTlrlWrr^TeTi ref ly " 
www.fireflycoffeehousefw.com 



E3I 



From Page B4 



right up there with the St Valentine's 
Day Massacre in Chicago In 1931. 

Skip: I agree, and what made the 
Blue and Brew Crew even more pissed 
was the lackluster response given to us 
by officials at IPFW. 

Trip: With the crappy student sup- 
port IPFW athletics gets anyway, you 
would think they would treat the cou- 
ple dozen fans that come to every 
game and cause a ruckus a little bet- 
Skip: Which leads to why MIA pret- 
ty much disbanded. 

Trip: Obviously, making old Notre 
Dame fans in their green garb happy 
was more important than catering to 
any IPFW fans. MIA Is dead. 

Skip: And gladly so. The constant 
lies and deceit by the now departed 
Brian Miller caused all of the students 
to basically kill what seemingly was 
a good idea, just put In the wrong 
hands. 

Trip: Let us not forget the mistakes 
of the past, lesl we repeal them. 

Skip: Yeah, Brian Miller is a stooge 
and we're glad he's gone. 

Trip: So, I'm curious, what could be 
number one? 

Skip: Women's track, of course. 

Trip: Close. I would have to go with 
the men's volleyball team advancing 
to the NCAA Final Four. What a great 
season for the young team. 

Skip; I agree, and 1 foresee a possi- 
l&gt;k- return this next year They lose the 



the hair. 

Skip: I agree. So, looking forward to 
iK'M year What sports should we take 
a look at? 

Trip: We kind of talked about each 
tt*am we wanted to during the top 
Bye. how about we look at the top five 
potential headlines next season? 

Skip: That works. I'll let you start 
wiih number five. 

Trip: At number five, 1 would say, 
"Women's b-ball team eclipses dou- 

Skip: I would agree. They have the 

tools to go at il next year, if they could 
bring in a couple of horses to play up 




ABOVE: Sean Kirk and Caleb Smith were part of a senior-heavy 
squad that reached 20-wins for the third straight year. 

RIGHT: Sean Kirk and Caleb Smith were part of a senior-heavy 
squad that reached 20-wins for the third straight year. 

5 wins and possibly leaving IPFW those hats and spiking the competi- 

1'rip: Good call. With the amount 
f talent they have on the rosier, a 
in win total like ili.n is surely wiihm 
'.ich Bui it's going '" ni lough with 
ill the typical guys iu the student set - 



e long. 

Trip: Most likely. What about num- 
ber two? 

Skip; I think it's the return of the 
mens team to the 1-inal Four. 

Trip: I agree. The bulk of the talent 
returns and the magical mind of Arnie 



Trip: Good call, 



So ii/. i. inert' i, -nil plenty (if laletil i 
the roster. 

Skip: True. They return numb 
two. IVai hy. and ( ynara among oil 
er« I hey will net'd a setter to rcplat 
I nk.i ami another big hitter to replat 



Skip: Yeah, those surfers and lum- 
berjacks. Hard to stop a front line that 
has so many big guys. 

Trip: Didn't BALCO have a lab in 
LA? Who knows. 

Skip: I think so. 

Trip: The guy's team has a bright 
future, that's for sure. 

Skip: I agree. And for number 

Trip: CONFERENCE AFFILIATION!!! 



combination of girls 
together. 

Skip: Exactly; they'll be swinging 



spot; IPFW, North Dakota St. and 
South Dakota St. The Mastodons are 
pushing hard for that spot. We will see 
what happens. 

Skip: We should get it from a logis- 
tics point, beyond Southern Utah and 
Centenary, everyone else is somewhat 
centrally located. I think this has to be 

Trip: I agree. If this falls through, 




Skip: I agree. And then back to the 
GLVC. 

Trip: That's right. Well Skip, who do 
we need to bid goodbye to after this 
year in IPFW athletics? 

Skip: To the departing seniors from 
soccer Peter Hachaj, lustin "Mexico" 
Ebaugh, Lindsay Williamson, volley- 
ball Fabiana Souza, basketball play- 
er Kelly Boyd and Softball's Jenna 
Beachy. 

Trip: We must remember all our 
favorite coaches as well. Coach Fisher, 
you will be remembered. 

Skip: As a hack. 



all. 

Skip: Exactly. And to all, it's been ; 
fun rule. We've made a lot of friends a 
IPFW, ami some enemies, but overal 
the rule must end. 

Trip: IPFW athletics will amazingl; 



read skip and i rip on line as well, if you 
feel the need for more witty insight. 

Trip: For us all here at the office, 
including loe-boo. we wish you a 
happy and joyous Festivus. 



s power hitter and led the Mastodons in the other n 



ions h.med in with 26. She also w 
three home runs She hit .268. 

Natalie Clark was a utility player and s 
1-4 record with a 3.6 
a Mast started 23 of 44 games and hit 193 Thomas si 
playing lime. 

Baseball 

IPFW announced the signing of two recruits to the program. 
Brett Merkley is a right-handed pmher and intielder from Forest 
Park High School in Huntingburg, IN. As of May 15. his earned run 
average was 2.51 and he was 4-2. He was hirting .424 with 12 RBI. 

"Bretty was sought after hv very icspeded i ompetition," coach 
Billy Gemon said in a press release "He is a leisty competitor that 
should impact our program immediately." 

Infielder lason Doerffler from Concordia here in Fon Wayne is 



Women's track 

The IPFW women's ir.n k team finished sivih out of eight teams 
at the Independent i haiupiunship at the University of Northern 
Colorado. 

Junior Ashley Ritchey placed second in the 5,000 and 10,000 
meter runs and earned 16 of IPFW's 49 total points. 

Sensational freshman Angic- Suel finished second in the 400 
meter dash with a time of 56.93 seconds. She accumulated 14 

Five relay and 14 individual records fell in a very successful 






Deluding 

i ili-: red 



Longwood at $260,870. Five broke 

- South Dakota State at $266,548. 

Only one Mid-Con team had less expenses ami revenue monies 
than IPFW - the soon-io-be-departed Chicago State. It made 
52.472,210 and spent that exact amount Valparaiso's expenses 
were the highest at S7.161.246. but it made S), 321.055 in revenue 

- by far the highest of any Mid-Con team, 
ad less in the revenue and expenses 
e and Savannah State. Seven others 

were higher than IPFW. 

So if only three out of the 15 combined athletic departments 
have less expenses but also less revenue than IPFW, according to 
IPFWisunder-funded? 
f under-funded," Pope said. 

only fully fund 



the USDE report, does that 

"Depends on your definition 

Pope said because of NCAA 

both basketball and volleyball programs when it 
scholarships. 

"I think we're typi 
development," he said. 

Having less revenue and expenses than 
other Independents is typical? 

"I'm sure they could use more." Pope 
question of priorities. I guess I'm not the hesi person to answer 
that question." 

Pope then referred to the IPFW-Notre Dame baseball game on 
April 19 when the Mastodons took the Irish to an extra inning but 
lost 4-3 at Notre Dame. 

"I would argue that Notre Dame's baseball program is fully 
funded and it's also 100 years old," he said. "Yet (coach) Billy 
(Gemon) was able to match up shot-for-shot, you know, slugged il 
out toe-to-toe and took them extra innings. There is not necessarily 
a direct correlation between dollars spent and athletic successes 
but certainly if you are sitting there with five scholarships divided 
up among your team and you are going up against a team that has 



Need. Money. Soon. 

It is a certainty that if IPFW can gain Mid-Con affiliation this 
summer, any financial woes will be shored up and revenue will 
be in the positive. Regardless, ll'FW has done a tremendous job 
in balancing the budget despite not receiving conference income. 
Sadly, it has and may continue to come at the expense of losing. 

If you've ever played sports, you know losing fiat-out sucks. 
Only three programs - bmh eulleyhalls ,, n d women's tennis - had 
winning records this school year at IPFW. The other eight programs 
- excluding mens and women's golf and women's track because 
the win-loss system is different -had less than .500 records. 

How can this be remedied? 

It should be noted that only four IPFW coaches have multi- 
year contracts - both volleyball and both basketball programs' 
head coaches. Pope said he is considering offering a multi-year 
deal to baseball coach Billy Gemon. All other coaches are on one- 
year deals. A long-term commitment to a coach will better attract 
recruits simply because those kids want to play for the coach and 
know he or she will be arour ' ' 

Another fix should perha| 
coaches here at IPFW. Pope said he doesn't evaluate coaches 
in-season and waits until all games are played. Right now, all 
programs are in their off season. It's evaluation time, Mr. Pope. 
I'm not going to name who should he li ted, not have their contract 
renewed or resign; I II lei lustin do thai in the column below. But 
you look at the binding and m hoi arship mo nf\ compared to wins 
and losses and accolades in the graphics on this page and come to 
a conclusion. 

The ultimate remedy is going to he conference affiliation. 
Hands-down. Hopelulh that'll happen this summer after the Mid- 
Con meetings and deliberations. 

"It would solve a lot of issues," Pope said. "It would certainly 

'*" - much more coherent schedule for our teams. I think 
ignificant amount of community 



10 scholarships divided up among ... 
tell you the team with 10 scholarships 
[ They've got more to spend." 

Complete example here. But how 
that receives $123,894 in expenses i 
money win twice as many games 



that it is difficult 
support, although I think "w 
difficult when you 



• a remarkable job with it. 



s heller Mudeili-athleles 



i sottli.ill program that 



championship. It would be a tremendous benefit t 
funding." 

IPFW has done pretty &gt; 



s $81,454 in expenses and $90,000 in scholarships when 
t baseball team is the most traveled program ,,t |p|-\v (17 away 
nes) and uses the most of that extra $42,000 on travel* Please 
■ the below column by my esteemed colleague lustin Kenny for 



having a solid conference ii 
revenue and expenses than n 
counterparts 



managing mone\ despii. 



i least financially - as a 
ry soon -hopefully this s 



Independent! 1 What will 



Foellinger Theatre 2006 

Concerts &amp; Movies 



FW Area Community 
Band 

Tues., June 20, 8 p.m. 

Memories of the King: 
Brent Cooper 
Sat., June 24, 8 p.m. 



Revolution (A Tribute to 

the Beatles) 

Sat, July 29, 8p.m. 



Indianapolis Jazz 

Orchestra 

Fri, August 4, 8 p.rr 

Admission: $3 



Knights on the Town with 
the Alley Kats 
Thur., July 6, 8 p.m. 



John Branam?s Big 
Swing Band 

Thur, July 13, 8 p.m. 



FW Area Community 
Band 

Tues., July 18, 8:00 p.rr 

Music Express and 
Strictly Show 

Thur., July 20, 8 p.m. 



Makem Brothers with the 
Spain Brothers 
Sat, July 22, 8 p.m. 

New Millennium Jazz 
Orchestra 

Tues., July 25, 8 p.m. 
Admission: $3 



Spike and the Bulldogs 

Sat., August 19, 8 p.m. 

Admission: $3 

FW Area Community 
Band 

Tues., August 15. 8:00 
"The Three AmigosI" 
Thur, August 24, 8:30 p. m 

"The Pink Panther" 
Wed., August 30, 8:30 p.m 



"Friday the 13th" and 
"The Ring" 

Fri., October 13, 7:30 p.m. 
Double Feature: $2 

Concerts are free and 
movies are $1 unless oth- 
erwise stated. Call 427- 
6000 or 427-671 5 for ticket 
or concert information. 




fortwayneparks.org 



The Communicator 



Jamie Ml« Managing Etftor 



Podium 



Utilizing our right to freedom 



Staff Editorial 



express in each issue and then standing 
up for our decisions and our rights is 
what the college experience is all about. 

Again, here we stand strong by our 
virtues facing off against any doubters 
who think that we do this campus and 
its students an injustice. 

This issue of The Communicator is 
has been contracted 



3 be a 



about IPFW and r 



s for ii 



ling 



disagree with what we did on that 
occasion and other times throughout 
ibis past semester? Of course they did. 

And have we disagreed with others? 
You bet we did. 

We disagreed with the way that 
some people from Student Government 
handled the post-carioon issue. And we 
stood up against them in the face of 
tyranny. 

' with the direct lack of 

irs most of the entire 
d up against 



and a phenomenal experience. 

And as we feci that we are leaders or 
this campus, we believe that we need tc 
t that and lead by our example? 



We 
support that v 



them in support of our 

The freedom that we expressed ( 
Feb. 15, the freedom we continue 
express each day and continued 



This has been a semester full of 
newsworthy events. We have done our 
best to bring it to you and yes, we have 
done it our way. Not everyone will agree 
and that's just the way it is. But as long 
as you believe in yourself, you can go a 
long way here. 

So stand up for who and what you 
are. The rest will take care of itself. 




Cartoon by Andres Ponte / aponte@ipfwcommunkator.org 



Letter to the Editor 



Communicator deserves praise 



) commend Brianna 
Belford on her fine "feature" article on 
Danny Epple. 

When I read about the accident last 
August, my first reaction was that this 
irresponsible kid had caused an accident 
that took the life of Professor Manzer. 

Because I have used the track at Gates 
Center to walk laps and always pick up 



office. It made me wonder. 

Brianna's article gave me a different 

insight to it all. "Why do bad things 
happen to good people?" That certainly 
can be wondered about the untimely 
death of John Manzer and the loss hi s_ 
family has stiffcre"cT" 

It can also be applied to Danny Epple. 
I believe his remorse is very real and his 



determination to use this experience 

talk about the hazards of drinking and 

driving, to young people especially, will 

He still faces sentencing. I hope 
he wilt continue to use his painful 
experience in a positive way. 



the students appreciate it and read it. 
Special congrats to Andrew Hoover and 
Chris Wetzel. They are a hoot. 



Summertime bringsabout 
annoying high schoolers 



Pasquali's Ponderings 



1 be birds .ire chirping, sun is shining 
and all of the schoolchildren are once 
again free to run amuck on society. 

In my previous column, I discussed 
how everyone needs to get outside and 



and then you would have pumpkin 
bread everywhere. 

ample of these intolerable 



) the theater and sat down, 
ely 10 rows down from the 



ave Inn with our friends and live ii up. 
Unioriunaiely. some individuals may 
.tin thai experience for everyone else. 



sitting down, 
going to be an 



us live our daily lives by, others continue 
to do everything in their power to not 
show any courtesy whatsoever. 

You all know the people I am talking 



:i their arms. Especially in large 
numbers, these kids are guaranteed to 
be the most obnoxious and rude people 

These kids are usually of high school 
age, some even first year college. 

The guys enjoy yelling stupid 
homosexual jokes at each other, while 
the girls do their stupid high-pitched 
giggle at everything said. 

Most of these guys think they are the 
coolest kids at their high school and that 
they can make fun of whomever and do 
anything they want because Dad has the 
cash to buy their way out of anything. 

The girls are seen as your anorexic, 
ditsy females. 

They wear clothes that reveal far 
too much and usually wear excessive 
makeup. The funny pan is they do not 
even notice that they look like a clown 
with their makeup like that. 

The part that amuses me is that 
some of them look like a pumpkin 
because their face looks orange, but it 
is OK, because they cannot think for 
themselves, so if you tell them their face 
is orange, their little brain might explode 



: previously 

in tin. luck 



discussed walked in 

row. This is where it starts. 

From the second they sat down, 
those idiot girls were talking in their 
obnoxious ditsy voices and giggling to 
the point that I thought MY head was 
going to explode. Their entire group was 
loud and chatty, even after the movie 
started. 

Therefore, of course, peopli 

telling them to shut up. 






Through the first half an hour of the 
movie this continued. Finally, a man 
one row behind us got up and left, and 
returned with one of the theater ushers. 

The usher witnessed the idiots in 
action, and went up there and told them 
to be quiet or they would have to leave. 
Hurray for pseudo-security! 



around you, but for the sake of your 
own well-being, because if you keep it 
up, ydu will just grow up (&lt; 



Parting is such sweet sorrow that I 
shall share my infinite wisdom first 



In Other Words 

By Brianna Belford 
bbelford@ipfwcommunicator.org 



it totally an ignorant person ... I just don't have 



The former SGA president, Lunar Dixon, went as, 
far as to attempt to cut funding citing that the racist 
ways of The Communicator had spawned a decrease in 

jadership, thus The ( nrnrnunicator should not receive 
s much funding. 
It's hard to refine ihat. but it cannot be proven and 
the survey he put nui happened In relied the Opposite, 

I ,ni(l quili: p.illielk lHIc nipt ul 



; of both and will oftem 
both the boobs and the bitchy label to get wh 
and need fgrmysetf a: 



home (with a mortgage and a Bower gardt 
tended by the apartment complex's garden boys) and 
eating somediing other than ramen and spaghetti-o's 
for dinner I've been faced wiih cklending my morals, 
my upbringing and my actions professionally and 
personally. 



There is 
the lone outspoken S(;,A s 
to squash The Communis 

After the cartoons ran, 
condemn I be Coiniunnica 
and the local television sia 

Eating my feces am 
eternity probably \\i\\ i 
Ok [(i publish a lew c, 



fj Shafiq Abdul-nahiiu. 



&gt;r all. I Us stall nil K« ehnnL 



This past s&gt; 
that living in 
eating meals that c 



r I was faced with the harsh reality 
imaller than most classrooms and 
l be worth less than a gallon of gas 



t tiling that could happen. 

I could have been labeled l&gt;\ professors and my fellow 

students as a media-hungry, womanizing, ignorant- 



Americans receive ibis watered-down and censored 
news the ignorance grows. 

One can learn as much about the genocide in Darfur 
by watching "The Daily Show" than they might if they 



"Entertainment iorughr" and "I he Insider" profiled 
George Clooney and his footage from his trip to Africa. 

Enter the humble newspaper. Newspapers aren't as 
widely read as they used to be; however, their "content" 
is either buried on page seven with the bingo ads for 
your local American Legion or it's not there at all. 

As the editor of The Communicator, this past 
)give the IPFW community an 



drinking my own urine for 
&gt;t happen because I gave the 

ions to show the senselessness 
of violence halfway around the world; however, I wjU 
probably always think &lt;il thai when I hear the Islam, as 
Mr. Rahim so wishes thai I and my staff do just that for 
eternity. 

Mr. Rahim, by the way. joined the si udent government 
a few days after the carinuns were puhlished and was 
then quickly appointed to the allocations committee by 
the infamous Dixon. 

It's safe to note here, kids, ihat the moral of this story 

is, if you don't like s 'tiling printed in the newspaper, 

make sure you join the student senate and have a friend 
in one of the high up offices. 

Be careful, however With the recent IPSGA election 
of Danny Epple (yes, that one guy who drove drunk 
and was in an accident ijiat killed ,i professor) and The 
Communicator's coverage of his past, or lack thereof, 
this past semester niy own agenda or, lack thereof, was 
brouglu into question. 



itisightintonatinn.il, in [(.-mamma I and local topics tl 
could potentially have an impact or create discussi 
that would combat this ignorance. 

Not every story I wanted to publish this past semes 
could have been front-page news. 

Nor could every story be published in a weel 

ningv 



accident occurred. 

Last semester, Epple refused 
widow talked to reporters. 

This semester she refused c 
the elections while he was willii 

Touchy subjects, both this Epple story and the one 
about the Danish cartoons. 

Both lead to unhappy readers, but both helped 
squash a bit of the ignorance that was running rampant 
on campus. 

Ignorance isn't always bliss; however learning that 
there are two sides to every story isn't always going to 
make one happy, either. 

At the end of this semester I'm still going to be that 
23-year-old woman who some think is merely a bitch 
and others think of as merely a pair of boobs with some 



I know where my ignorances 



that should not be placed in a weekly. 

When news came about that would last on the 
stands and I was able to get to a welt-written story 
and/or some type of picture or graphic I jumped at the understanding 

The decision to print the Danish cartoons that 
depicted the prophet Muhammed was not an easy one. 
I feared for the safety of all who I was in charge of. 

I commend the public for not reacting like those in 



I know who I a 
happen to fall. 

As college students, no matter your age, keep your 

mind open to the other side of the story. 1 guarantee 

your ignorance can only bring you so much 






e of my GPA a 



I commend those who took the opportunity to use 
the cartoons to educate themselves and others on what 
senselessness it is to riot and create violence because of 
a depiction that has been going 

I will, however, point out ho 
some on Student Government v&gt; 



As an educated woman and editor I've chosen to 
leave The Communicator and lei sumeone else publish 
the what the faculty and students at IPFW are wanting. 

i for centuries. I wish everyone the best of luck in combating their owp 

completely ignorant ignorances. 

e to the situation. Bemeher. the first step is admitting you were wrong. 



d and accompanied by a 









RIDING HER HOME: Groom on his mare that he will HALDIHATH: Sitting around the sacred fire with the 

ride for 5 kms while his best men and other male Bride's father. Bride's father heads this ceremony 

friends dance around him the entire way. He is wear- as they sit under a canopy of banana and coconut 
ing a garland of money, which is a sign of luck and leaves intertwined with yellow flowers around the 

fortune. top. This ceremony is when the father places the red 

dye into their hands, which is used to make the Bind! 
on the Bride's forehead. 



