Indiana University • Purdue Uni versity • Fort Wayi 



The Communicator 



INSIDE: 



24, not on TV 

In 24 hours, plays were written. 

performed and reviewed. Page 6 his sense of humor. "pasje 2 



Memories of Mike... g 'Kind of unraveled' 

coworker^ of Michael Rice recalls Coaches, players look at the 03-04 

season; and the future Page 10 



Volume 34, Issue 23 



www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Wednesday, March 17, 2004 



The Electoral College 



The Indiana-Purdue Student 
Government Association elections 

are sneaking up on IPFW students 
-with the three day.s of voting slat- 
ed to take place Tuesday, March 23, 
Wednesday, March 24 and 
Thursday, March 25. 

IPFW's Student Life 
announced earlier this week a 
finalized ballot. 

In an effort to give IPFW vot- 
ers a chance to meet the candidates 
and get to know them a little better, 
an Election Forum is set to take 
place from noon until 1 p.m. on 
Wednesday, March 17. Candidates 
are scheduled to talk and answer 
questions from any IPFW student 
at the Walb Student Union that day. 

"Each candidate is going to 
have five minutes to speak, why 



Health Fair 
takes place 
March 24 



they're running and what their 
purpose is," junior Kristin 
Brockhaus said. "It's going to be 
(airly simple. It's the first one." 

Brockhaus is on the election 
committee for IPSGA. 

The 2004-2005 ballot includes 
two individuals running for the 
office of Student Body President. 
Current President Matt Shilling is 
hoping to retain his position but is 
being challenged by Kerri 
Przemielewski. 

The only candidate for 
Student Body Vice President is 
Christopher Yahne, while the only 
individual running for Student 
Body Vice President of Finance is 
Tony Wilson. 

Brett Frauhim'r is challenging 
current Vice President of 
Programming Erin McConaha for 
her position. 

Brockhaus is impressed with 



the candidates running, and 

believes they all have a mature atti- 
tude toward their goals. 

"They all seem verv serious 
about it. They all seem to be pretty 
excited and have high expectations 
for ISPGA," she said. 

This year, balloting will be 
conducted in both Kettler Hill and 
Walb Student Union. On March 23 
and March 24, it'll take place from 
9 a.m. to 7 p.m. in Kettler Hall. On 
March 25, voting will be conducted 
at the Walb Union hreside Lounge. 

Brockhaus explained it isn't a 
middle school campaign. 

Everybody is coming forward with 
ideas for their jobs in IPSGA. 

"It's not just a popularity con- 
test this year. It's going to be about 
something. The candidates have 
goals and reasons to run. Things 
they want to accomplish this year 
in their office," she said. 



Student Senator 
resigns, believing 
funds mismanaged 



In February, Christopher 
Lung, Student Senator and 
Chairman of the Ways and Means 
Committee, resigned. Lung cited 
his belief in the mismanagement of 
Student Fee funds as the major rea- 
son for his resignation. 

Each student pays a fee as 
part of their tuition. Of the money 
collected from this fee, 60 percent 
goes to the athletic department and 
40 percent goes to IPSGA. The 
money is then allocated to various 
programs and activities on cam- 
pus, such as SOAR or child care. 

Student Body President Matt 



Though it is often the most 
neglected aspect of a college stu- 
dent's life, healthy living will be 
the central focus of the 15th 
Annual Health Fair on Wednesday, 
March 24, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in 
the Walb Memorial Union, 

This fair promises to be the 
largest fair yet, according to Judy 
Tillapaugh, 
Fitness and 






Bill Polian, 


pres- 


said 


ident of 


the 


Tillapaugh. 
"The more 


Indianap 

Colts, wil 


olis 
be 


students 


the featured 


adopt 
healthy liv- 
ing behav- 
iors, the 


speaker 
year. 


this 


for quality 


just setting the 
years ahead. 


stage 


Continued on Page 


2 


of a 

By Scott M 


. Lawson 


)1 


The Communicator 





'Justly Married' 



Professor is 
among the 
thousands to 
marry uV 
San Francisco 



There is a poster hanging on 
the door to IPFW psychology 
professor Jeannie DiClementi's 

It features what appears to 
be courthouse steps, and along it 
are drifting rose petals. The stone 
and flowers an erie combination 
of years of frustration and one 
month of celebration for 
American same sex couples. 

Above the gray and red are 
just two words: "Justly Married." 

DiClementi and her partner 
of 15 years took the trip to San 
Francisco to go through a ceremo- 
ny that thousands of couples 
commit to each day. 

On March 8, they married. 

But, because they are both 
female, it is unlikely many states 
will recognize their union .is any 
more than a rebellion at society 
and a debated piece of legal 
paperwork. 

None of that matters to 
DiClementi and Mary Ross. 

"Like the minister who mar- 
ried us said: No matter what the 




IPFW professor Dr. Jeannie DiClementi and her long- 
time partner, Mary Ross, listen to a Unitarian minister at 
their wedding in San Francisco on March 8. They were 
among the 4,100 same-gendered couples to marry in the 
city between Feb. 12 and March 12. 

courts do, they can't take this DiClementi and Ross met in 

away from us. There will be some a church group in Denver 15 
legal wranglings. We may not get years ago and already had com* 
those 1,200 rights that heterosex- mitment rings, but the idea of 
uals have, but they cannot take taking that one extra step was 
March 8 away from us," something they were looking for- 
DiClementi said as she recalled ward to doing, 
the day just over a week ago. Continued on Page 8 



Shilling called the situation "a 
volatile one." 

"He's one person with one 
opinion, and everybody is entitled 
to one. I'm not going to say it was 
the wrong way to go about it, but 
obviously he wanted to make a dif- 
ference," Shilling said. 

Lung said he was looking to 
make a difference in the lives of 
IPFW students. 

"I wanted to see programs 
that came along thai would change 
people's lives, that would affect 
them the rest of their life, affect 
their career, affect their stay at 
IPFW, not just something that 

Continued on Page 3 



Miss Gay 
IPFW to 
be named 
March 28 



itive effect on the the campus. 

E R E N 
(Equal Rights 




IPFW 



made has bei 
fitted every- ^ n,s,aela 
body," current D e V o r e , 
EREN president P 09es ' a9t 
Jeff Sterling Y'« »«« 
explained. In , » 

previous legal "» wn ^- 
encounters, the 

group has complained about hav- 
ing to pay for security for events. 
Because of that precedent. Sterling 
said, no student groups are dealing 
with paying for campus security at 
on campus functions. 

Continued on Page 2 



ofarevolution to bring music revolt to IPFW 



be the major spring concert fur ll'IVV tins year. SAB is work- 
ing at making a tradition of having a small concert during 

Student Activities Board announced the band ofarevo- the faU and a lar ge event for the springtime. Two years ago, 
lurion, also known as O.A.R., will perform for IPFW at the the spring event was a Hip Hop Jam; last year, it was come- 
Allen County War Memorial Coliseum on April 10. dian Darrell Hammond. 

Tickets went on sale Monday for $25 through "With the campus changing, SAB has to change as well. 

TicketMaster either online or at the Coliseum box office. ' r we have the resources, we need to take advantage of it," 

"Out of any act SAB could've chosen, O.A.R. is the Student Body Programmer Erin McConaha said. 
hottest college appeal band out there," Audrey Moore, assis- Because of O.A.R.'s popularity among college students, 

tant director of Student Life, said. SAB is anticipating the audience to come from the tri-state 




The band, which formed at Ohio State University, will 



Continued on Page 2 




Seymour &amp; Alfred visit. 



Comedians Seymour 
and Alfred came to 
IPFW to entertain 
students in another 
SAB noontime event. 




IPFW hosts O.A.R. April 10 at the Memorial 
t Exp Center. 

IPFW senior Wes 
Matsel has published 
his first book through 
the new medium of 



Threat Level: Severe' page 7 on-demand publishing 




Page 2 The Communicator 



News 



March 17, 2004 



Death of Rice gives life to many memories 



piTi to you 



/ithl 



always for the 
life, righl and Iff*, .ind sumi 1 nl them mem 
something (o you, whcrcis others well, you 
couldn't care less. 

This year, I had the opportunity of 
meeting one of those people who can never 
be replaced. The type of person who leaves 
(heir mark on your life and makes you want 
to be a better person. 

This fall. I li.id (hi'oppurlunitv of t.iking 
a job at the Into Desk in W.ilb Union. On my 
first day here, I was so nervous and never 
though! that I'd get the hang of things. 






I'tget 






type of guy Mike was. He knew how to 
make you laugh when you made a mistake 
or said something stupid. He never made 
you feel insignificant. Mike was the coolest 
guy I had ever met. 

He had the best advice, and sometimes 
it was advice that anyone could give, but 
when he gave it to me, I actually listened. He 
also was one of the most hilarious guys I had 



Mike and listening U&gt; 
the darkness. I never 

n-.ili/ed how adjusted 



until I stopped doing 



itroduced to everyone at work 

and found out that the music-loving guy was 
Mike Rice. I had only known the guy for 
about a day when out of nowhere he asked 
me to trace his tattoos off the computer for 
the Army. 

lie also failed to mention to me that 
when I was tracing them, they didn't have to 
have every specific detail. That's just the 



he a job people kill to have. 

I worked with Mike a lot. I nevei 
ized how much of an impact he had on me 
until he was gone. 

Monday mornings aren't the same as 
they used to be. There are no more Monday 
rituals of making three pots of coffee for 




think of. 

In fact, befort 
Mike left foi 
Colorado, he was try- 
ing to teach me how ' 
to play the dating IPFW student 
Mike Rice died 
nued on unexpectedly 
aee 5 Feb. 27. 



Relay For Life to be 
a walk to remember 



The American Cancer 
Society's annual Relay for Life 
event will return to the campus of 
IPFW this April. 

Carrying the theme "IPFW in 
Paradise," the event is scheduled to 
take place at Hilliard Gales Sports 
Center on April 16-17. 

The Relay for Life event, now 
in its 20th year, is the signatu 



tries, In all t 

of the progr; 



the goal 
than to fight 

ild efficiency 






for the 



out tl- 
hold i 
225 a 



This 
OUgh- 
led to 
, with 

ticipaling. 

The collegiate participation 
has more than tripled from 65 to 
135 in 2003 and now to 225. 

"Colleges and universities are 
B new target area that the 
American Cancer Society is 
approaching with our programs, 
services and fundraising events 
such as Relay (or Life," said 
Northeast Indiana Community 
Development Director Carmen 
Parker. "Students have great talent, 
energy and enthusiasm and 
through the Relay for Life make a 
significant impact on the commu- 

The event was initialized in 
May 1985 when Dr. Cordy Klatt 
took a 24-hour walk/run around a 
track in Tacoma, Washington. That 
one man raised $27,000 with that 
walk/run for the American Cancer 
Society. The next year, 19 teams, 
totaling 220 supporters joined Dr. 
Klatt and the Relay for Life was 



Tile purpose of Relay for Life 
is to raise money in the ongoing 
fight against cancer, with the hope 
thai one day, the struggle with can- 
cer may be eliminated. 

During the event, teams, usu- 
ally made up of 10-15 people, camp 
out on campus at Gates and take 
turns walking or running on a 
track or path. Each team keeps at 
feast one representative on the 
track or path at all times for 24 

Each member of the team will 
pay $10 for a registration fee, and 
then the team will be responsible 
for holding some sort of a team 
fundraiser in order to raise dona- 
tions for their team's contribution 
to the American Cancer Society's 
fight. 

"We now know that our life- 
saving journey to roach our 2015 
goals is neither a sprint nor a 
marathon, it is a relay — our Relay 
for Life," said JohnSeffrin, the CEO 
of the American Cancer Society. 

For more information on the 
American Cancer Society, Relay for 
Life and the opportunity to sign up 
for IPFW's Relay event, Parker can 
be contacted at the email 
carmen.parker@cancer.org. 



Health Fair set for March 24 at IPFW 



The event offers education and awareness about 
the health issues pertinent to students today. In addi- 
tion, students will be able to sign up for gift drawings, 
and snacks includ- 
ing popcorn, fruit 
and vegetables will 
be offered free of 

The main 

event of the day 
features Bill Polian, 
President of the 
Indianapolis Colts. 
Polian will be 
speaking from 12- 
1:00 p.m. on 



We are very fortunate 
that organizations 
want to give time and 
talent to (help stu- 
dents) learn about 
their health." 

Judy Tillapaugh 
Health Fair organizer 



erest in connecting more with cam- 
" said Tillapaugh. Last year's health 
fair featured land 1 ogle ol Subway fame. 

The fair is open to the public, though "our main 
purpose is to students, faculty and staff," said 
rUlapaugh. Last year's event saw over 100 people, 
said Tillapaugh, and she expected attendance to 
increase this year. 

The fair will host several exhibits, unhiding ?2 
exhibits by IPFW-af filiated organizations. 

The fair is "really glad a number of student 
organizations (will be) present," said Tillapaugh. 
IPFW Nursing students will be on-hand for blood 
pressure screenings, and the IPFW Dental program 
will offer free dental cancer screenings. Other IPFW 
organizations on hand will range from the Pre- Vet and 
Pre-Med clubs to Student Housing to Delta Gamma to 
Delta Sigma Pi and Speech and Hearing Club. 

Many other organizations from the community 
will also have exhibits and educational programs at 
the event. Parkview and Lutheran Hospitals will have 
several exhibits, but several other unusual vendors 
will be on hand as well. The Fort Wayne Ski and Track 
Clubs will be on hand, as well as Higher Grounds cof- 
fee shop, the Three Rivers Food Co-Op and United 
Hispanic Americans, Inc. The radio station STAR 88.3 
will also be at the event. 



"We are very fortunate that organizations want to 
give time and talent to (help students) leam about 
their health," said Tillapaugh. 

The majority of the screenings that will be offered 
are free of charge, and range from HIV/AIDS testing, 
to screening-- tor blood ^ugar, to long capacity to flex- 
ibility and body mass index testing. Services that 
include a fee include a blood health profile ($28 and 
requires a 12-hour fast before hand), to blood type 
testing ($10), prostate cancer screening (S23) and oth- 
ers. Bone densit\ screening is S1t fur people under 40, 
but free for those over 40. 

According to fillap.iugh, she is "real pleased by 
what we're going to offer in mental health education" 
through depression, Bi-Polar and Post Traumatic 
Stress education. Psi Chi, the Psychology Club, and 
the Student Wellness and Peer Education Group are a 
few of the organizations that will be on hand to give 
service and education in the mental health area. 

But, there is "more than just screenings," said 
I illapaogh. It's mure than just coming, it's a chance to 
interact," she said. 

In addition to the large number of screenings 
available to attendees, there will also be several edu- 
cational events available, from recommendations on 
the type of shoe and workout wear to choose to heart 
healthy living guidelines. 

On the second floor of the Walb Union there will 
be a "TLC Area," a first for the event, according to 
miapaugh. Mary Kay cosmetics will be on hand and 
mass.iges will he available lor attendees, in addition to 
several other exhibitor-- promoting re-t and relaxation. 

Roots Camp and Ski will set up a camp in the 
space between the Helmke Library and Walb Union, 
and employees will be on hand to offer camping, hik- 
ing and trail tips. 

The other major outside activity is hosted by 
Lutheran Hospital, which will provide car seat inspec- 
tions in the circle drive between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. 

The event is "not about making money," accord- 
ing to Tillapaugh, but "helping students leam more 
about their health and gain some practical ideas for 
prevention of diseases," said Tillapaugh, "things that 
can make a difference as you strive to get that degree." 



O.A.R. coming to IPFW 

from Page 1 

area, not to mention every portion releases and are considered one of 

of Indiana. the most successful indie bands 

"It's a band that we've been ever, according to music literature, 

told time and time again that peo- Their 2002 double-live CD "Any 

pie will travel for," McConaha Time Now" has sold over 100,000 

O.A.R. is known for their 
rent hit "Hey Girl" and have three Then," they 
albums to their name. They are 

considered one ot the most impor- 
tant up and coming bands, with 






transitioning to a 
ijor record company. But col- 
es are still where they're known. 
If (students) like college rock, 



their latest album "In Between they'll like it," McConaha noted 



Now and Then" called a critical 


She anticipates a large event 


success in 2003. They are common- 


April 10, O.A.R. routinely sells out 


ly compared to The Dave 


or near sells out the majority of 


Matthews Band in terms of unique- 


their shows. 


ness, if not sound. 


"I think they are be a big 



They have had four album turnout," she said. 



Miss Gay IPFW set for Marc h 28 



"Most of the changes we've 
found, we fight from the student 
group. We go in, we involve our- 
selves in the politics and we pro- 
mote change," Sterling said. 

EREN is made up of over a 
dozen entities each with unique s ^ e ~ which" sounds fine until" 



agendas. The overall goal, accord- 
ing to their literature, is to be an 
organization for the support, edu- 
cation and advocacy tor lesbians, 
gays, bisexuals, transgendered, 
questioning and "allied" commu- 
nities of IPFW and the Northeast 
Indiana area. 

The group has found that by t " he Umehght ^at' night for P artici 



from Page 1 

creating a safe environment, then "' uke me fact lhat a lot ° f 

it's recruitment (for IPFW). But our l ar ge campuses have them. IU has 

key officers are (IPFW) students," one - Purdue has one, and I think 

he said. that we as a campus have a lot that 

EREN is about the third we need to. do," Sterling said. He 

largest group of its kind in the said &gt;' als ° challenges stereotypes 
and he believes it slowly changes 



person remembers Fort Wayne is the environment, 
the second largest city in Indiana, When the first homosexual 

Sterling said. student group was formed in 1995, 

Miss Gay IPFW is set to take the w °rd "gay" wasn't even a part 

place Sunday, March 28 at the Walb of *«r constitution. They feared 

Student Union Ballroom beginning th ey wouldn't be allowed in. 
at 6 p.m. It is the biggest evt 
the group every year, putting 



' alternative 



j: 



ditorial Board 



I M. Lawson. .' .,'.■ 
S.G. Wablberg, Managing Editor 
Aiden Bordner, Advertising Manager 
Kurtis Meyers, Arts &amp; Entertainment Etlitor 
Nick West, Sports Editor 
Katie Pruitt, Copy Editor 
K.E. Casey, Chief Reporter 
Josh Vargas, Advertising Designer 
Done Reynolds, Publisher 



fiivinj; tlusi' communities support 
they have actually made IPFW a 
Irifiuilv campus for everyone. 

"If we can attract people by 

Contact 

The Communicator 
Walb Union; Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Editor: (260)481-6584 

Publisher: (260) 481-6585 

Advertising: (260) 481-6583 

Fax: (260)481-6045 

www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



pants ami organizers 
The grand prize i 
. Sterling said. 



S.llll.l 




instead, the tt 

"What was this, a group of 
skateburders?" Sterling laughed. 
But it has evolved at IPFW. 

"It's changed a lot (at IPFW). I 



DITORIAL P 

The optn 



h reflect the ' 

employees or its student body. A 
column is solely the opinion of 
its author. 

The Communicator wel- 
comes responses from readers. 
Letters to the Editor and guest 
columns must be signed, dated 
"' "companied by " ~ 



All submissions made \ 

mail will be verified "by tele- 
phone or in person. Addresses 
and telephone numbers will not 
be published. 

Submissions must be typed, 
double-spaced and no more than 
800 words. 

Tiie editorial board of The 
Communicator reserves the 
right to edit all submissions for 
length, grammar, style and clar- 
iiv. Letters deemed libelous by 



efing these published under any 



Letters .._ ....... 

it quiiviiKiiis will noi he*cniiMd- stances. 
ered for publication, 



the editorial board will 



be 



March 1 7, 2004 



News 



The Communicator Page 3 



Student Senator resigns 



from Page 1 

makes them laugh for a night, tion 
That's part of SAB. They take care nitui 
of the entertainment. Senate 
should enrich people' 
commented. 



ivas the purchase of new fur- 
re for the IPSGA office. 
"She (Caroline Harlan) is also 

he the one that pushed for the pur- 
chase of two chairs and a very 

According to Shilling, Lung small couch for $3,000. She felt this 
held an important position in the was necessary to show a more pro- 
Student Senate, fessional image. 1 have been in 

Lung describes his former hundreds of offices and have never 

position as being one of weighing seen furniture like this in any of 

the pros and cons of programs the them. I recommend taking a look 

came before the Senate. Lung also in the IPSGA office in Walb," stated 

felt that many members of the Lung's resignation letter. 

Student Senate were only voting Dr. Donna Bialik, Dean of 

on what they wanted, not what the Students, said that the money was 

students of IPFW wanted. spent on a couch and two chairs. 

"The responsiblity and goal of Nearly $3,000 was spent for the 

the Student Senators is make choic- furniture, which had to be pur- 

es for the majority of the students chased through university- 

on campus. And one thing 1 find approved vendors. Also, according 

very ironic is that we'll get a bill in to Bialik, the cost of the furniture 

front of us and typically vote on it was discounted. 

the same day, without asking any- Lung said that requiring the 

one's opinion, without talking to purchase of furniture through spe- 

fellow students. They're voting on cific vendors cost students more 

their own beliefs, with isn't how it money. "My gripe with adminis- 

should be," he said. tration is that they require us to go 

Shilling commented that, "My through certain vendors." He also 

job is to oversee them. If I don't said that he could have gone to 

agree with something, I cannot put Value City and purchased some- 

a stop to It. That's their voice. All I thing much nicer for half the price, 

do is sign the bill." "No matter what the program 

As for his assertion of mis- is, no matter what the activity is, 

management of money, Lung they just blow through money, the 

points to the contingency fund, student's money, like it's nothing," 

There was a big difference in where stated Lung, 

the fund was at the beginning of Bialik also commented that 

the fall and where it is today. IPSGA's spending is monitored; it 

"We started with over is just a difference of opinion about 

$103,000. We are now at under how money in the fund should be 

$25,000, if not less than that," Lung spent, 

noted. Lung counters that point. 

Shilling said growing pains "Would I say Athletics make 

were felt this year. better decisions with their money? 

"As far as the spending issues. From what I've seen: yes. From my 

I will be the first one to admit that understanding. Athletics is faculty- 

we spent monies — we made some driven, and I think that's one of the 

mistakes. But we have to make big differences," he said. 



those mistakes to learn from them . 
. . My opinion is we're allocated a 
certain amount of money. If we 
don't spend that money, I don't 

; our job." 



think V 



Shilling believes including 
more students in more activities 
means using funds for a variety of 
purposes - and that's just a fact of 
new life at IPfty. Not everybody is 
"We're going to support going to agree with the allocations. 
groups . . . Student organizations "The hard part of it is this 

that come after the money, we're campus is growing everyday. It's 
going to give them a chance. Now, going to take us spending more 
if 20 people come to their event, we and more money every year," said 
leam from that mistake," he added. Shilling. 

A specific expenditure that 
Lung cited in his letter of resigna- Scott M. Imvson contributed to this article. 



IU set to hold video 
public forum about 
hikes in tuition fees 



If you have something to say 
about the tuition and fees for 
Indiana University for the 2004-05 
academic year, you'll get a chance 
to speak your piece. 

On Tuesday, March 23, from 3 
to 5 p.m., IU President Adam 
Herbert and the IU Board of 
Trustees will hold a public forum 
before setting rates for next year. 

The forum will be held on the 
IUPUI campus in Indianapolis; 
however it will be available to 
IPFW faculty, staff, students, and 
the general public via video and 
teleconference hook-ups at IPFW's 
Kettler Hall in Room G22. 

"The board and 1 are commit- 
ted to facilitating broader public 
discussion on matters related to 
tuition and fees," Herbert said at 
the Feb. 27 Trustees meeting. 



"We* 






transparent process, particularly 
on issues of such importance to 
students and parents. This forum 
will include a budget discussion on 
topics such as how our costs affect 
tuition rates," he added. 

IPFW Chancellor Michael 
Wartell is pleased the trustees are 
actively seeking the public's input. 

"I think it's very important 
that they hear directly from the 
people who are paying the bills. 
Students and parents need to know 
that their concerns count," Wartell 
said in a release. 

Anyone interested in submit- 
ting questions to the trustees prior 
to the forum can do so at 
ruition@indiana.edu. 

For more information, call the 
Margie Eberle-PoIIey in the IU 
Office of Communications and 
Marketing at 812-855-0059. 



Chancellor's Chat to 
be held March 24th 



A Chancellor's Chat set with 
IPFW Chancellor Michael Wartell 
has been scheduled for 
Wednesday, March 24 at noon in 
Kettler Hall Room 178. 

The chats are an open discus- 
sion with Wartell for students 
interested in speaking to him or 



hearing his take on current IPFW 
situations. 

Those interested in attending 
this session are asked to RSVP to 
the Student Life Office by Friday, 
March 19 at 481-6609. Lunch will 
be provided to those attending the 



SAB plays host to Seymour &amp; Alfred 




IPFW Student Activities Board present- 
ed the pre-Spring Break kickoff of comedi- 
ans and dancers Seymour and Alfred on 
March 4 in the Walb Union Ballroom. 

The duo entertained IPFW students for 
over an hour, harassing some, and showing 
the crowd some smooth dance moves. 

Above, IPFW junior Phillip Tanner 
tries to measure up with Seymour and 
Alfred playing the air guitar. Right, Phillip 
(background) points out some nifty steps 
taken by Seymour. 

SAB's next large event will be a concert 
with O.A.R. on April 10 at the Memorial 
Coliseum. Tickets are $25 and are available 
through TicketMaster or the Me 
Coliseum Box Office. 




IPFW 



Campus » 
Calendar 



• J' &lt; ' lasses. GC, noon-1 p.m.; for 
information, call 6647 or e-mail 
tillapau@ipfw.edu. 

1 8 Weigh to Go . . . Walk Away Cravings. 
24 Weigh to Go ... Come to the Health Fair, 
WU, 9 a.m.-3 p.m. 

18 University Religious Forum: "The 
Challenges Facing International Students 
on Fort Wayne Campuses.'" WU 222, 
noon-1 : 15 p.m.; for information, call 
6§92. 

19 Department of Biology Senior 
Seminars: Angela Bojrab. 
"Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy in 
Plantar Fasciitis" and Alisaa Duncan, 
"BrainConservation: SavingNeurons 
with Memantine," SB 1 85, noon; for 
information, call 6305. 

20 Women's Studies celebrates 
Women's History Month: "The 

Essence of Liberty: Free African 
American Women before Slavery 
Ended," Wilma King, the Strickland 
Distinguished Professor of African 
American History, University of 
Missouri-Columbia, NF 10 1 , 2 p.m.; for 
information, call 6895. 
Dinner Series 

21 Auburn House Restaurant and Catering 
presents "A Night Among the Classics," 
Aubum Cord Duesenbcrg Museum, 
Aubum, 6:30 p.m., $20 per person; for the 
dinner menu and reservations, call Louise 
at 6562. 

24 IPFW presents "An Enchanted Spring 
Evening on the Lake," Potawatomi Inn. 
Angola, $25 per person, 6:30 p.m.; for the 
dinner menu and reservations, call Lori 
at260-418-3924. 



for March 18-24, 2004 



11 Fine Arts Exhibit: Spring Senior 
B.F.A.; continues through April 15. 
Opening reception, March 26, VA 
Gallery, 6-8 p.m.; free and open to the 
public. For information, call 6705. 
Spanish table: Come eat and talk with 

nosotros!) WU Lounge, noon; for 

information, e-mailcimlorimwipfw edu. 

Concert: Community Orchestra, NF 
Recital Hall, 7:30 p.m.; for information, 
call 6714- 



23 IPSGA elections, KT ground floor tables 
1.2, and 3.9 a.m.-7 p.m.; also 

March 24, tables 4, 5, and 6; for 
information, call 6609. 
IPFW Book Group: Wide Sargasso 
Sea by Jean Rhys, KT 101, noon; guests 
and brown bag lunches welcome. For 
information, call 6743. 

24 College-Level Examination Program 
(CLEP), KT 232. 8:30 a.m.; for 
information, call 6600. 

Honors Program Lunch Talk: Beverly 
Hume presents Herman Melville's 
Environmental lrn.iuin.ihim in Muhv Dick, 
KTG35,noon-l:l5p.m.;for 
information, call 6924. 
School of Education lecture: "Higher 
Education and the Crisis of Youth: 
Implications for Academics as Public 
Intellectuals." Henry Giroux, Waterbury 
Chair Professorship in Secondary 
Education, The Pennsylvania State 
University, CM 159, 4:30-6 p.m.; for 
information, call 4146. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Page 4 The Communicator 



Opinions 



March 17, 2004 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or 

abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the 

right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the 

government for a redress of grievances. 



JKL a 



Editorials 



The Spanish Inquisition 






i-.. Hi.' 



i last week, and they 



made, there is no current knowledge on who con- 
la operatives, or Basque separatists. But whoever it 
,' may have anticipated - they made Spain tuck tail. 



Quickly 

Didn't World War II leach anyone- in Europe anylhin&gt;; abnul appeasement? It doesn't work. 
Especially if thai appeasement is given because of the edge of a blade, 

lhe trouble imi'I llial ^pain ele. led a new govi-rnmenl Obviously, lh.it is a nice exercise in democ- 
racy. Kill il si 'i ■in', .i kin e ]i 1 1 1 1 mi I ■ • &gt;t ■ h\ I In 'i i . ill i 'j is I, .in i si I heir &gt; urrent Prime Minister because of 
fe.us that the alia, k ag.unsi their country was retribution lor their im oh emenl in lhe War on Terror. 

And lhe lust thing the new prime minister does i^. dictate Spanish troops Will be withdrawing from 
1 1. 1, 1 n, ,ij .|.., r , ni ,i- , &lt;n.| ii il . \ i Ih Hi. i\ i .In ■ ,&gt;1 .'. h&lt; ■ ri i Ihev MJspeil did the terrorizing. Raising a 
white liar, ■.•..■n i | n M\ ■ mL-iui- it'll onl\ show the violent how to get what ihev waul: through 

11 istiimpli'leh upio lhe Spanish todeudehow they use llieir military troops. If after calm debate, 
the so. ieh detidi then d rather not bi hi ivilj Involved with the 1 'SA, thai s a respectable decision. 
n ,aftei .1 terroi Lai hike the odety dedde to recoil in ft u they will m&lt;.\ up Living in more fear. 



,d Wli 

Klllng 
tjbpeo! 



rhrealsdon'l slop Americans, and theactu- 
Once that was accomplished, we respond- 
remains debatable, but al Qaeda's dispatch 
fear and tailtucking. We ignored it because 

■asenient does and doesn't do. 

•v wanted the Spanish out, and they were 

we react if the next terrorist attack against 



Our man, Mitch? 

. ii remains to be seen il Mitch Daniels is ,1 good candidate for Indiana governor, but he gets some 
high marks for using pop culture 

Daniels is promoting himself through a seven week television spot - half hour commercials that are 
pail Osbournes, |mi I Andy I ,i iflilh It is an interesting way ol seeing a campaign trail as he traverses 
s Indiana D.nu.'l- -\&lt;i- ,t In i iIi.-.tis and requests their voles, the entire time edited to allow for 



the televis 
Filmed last fa) 



or his w, 



a I lei pa vis of Indiana Foi those who enjoy see- 
rtaining. Daniels is almost always in campaign 
i the idea of show me, his responsibility, taking 

southeast Indiana. 

d showcases either his love ol Indiana (he often 
•uallv in the economic pari of the history book) 
' id Likel) it s the former. His adult lite has 
pparently been devoted to traveling about the 
;overnment agencies he's represented. 
■in.' mainly is m non-elected positions of gov- 
of Eli-Lilly and was in charge of the Office of 
Daniels also was Chief of Staff for U.S. Senator 

to allow voters to see more than what is behind 



for two presidents that shd America into hug 

Of course, Indiana has been suffering financially lor several years now, so he may be able to make 
that a moot point when he faces Governor Joe Kernan in the General Election. 



Word of the Week: 
Misanthrope 



Recently, while in the midst of one of my favorite activities, complaining about 
how stupid people are, I learned a new word. Right in the middle of my rant, the 
sports editor of The Communicator, Nick West, cut me off mid-complaint. 

"Stop being a misanthropist," he said. 

Not knowing what the word meant, I immediately went to the dictionary to find 
out if I had been insulted or not. It turns out the word was an apt description of 
myself: a misanthropist is one who despises or hates humanity. There are few 
things in this world that inspire greater annoyance, disappointment, fear, and 
loathing in me than the very nature of human beings. We are a petty, short sight- 
ed, small minded, violent species of animals who have no regard for the planet on 
which we live or the creatures who live on it with us, including our fellow human 

I wasn't always this pessimistic toward the human race. 1 remember a time when 
I was young and happy, unconcerned with the world outside of my elementary 
school and home. 1 had no idea the o/one layer was being depleted, the economy 
was going to pot, the government was helping put tyrannical dictators into power 
for the sake of cheap oil, and the AIDS virus was spreading like a wildfire across 
the nation. I was certain that the Care Bear Stare would fix all of my insignificant 
problems and then I'd get to fly into the clouds with Rainbow Bright and her My 
Little Pony. 

My introduction to the crueler side of my species came in fourth grade when a 
fellow classmate, let's call her Christina, began picking on me mercilessly and 
made the entire year perhaps lhe worst of my young life From then on, the mind- 
less insensitivitv ot the people around me would continue to amaze, proving my 
previously held perception that people were basicalh tnendlv and good wrong at 
almost every rum. The media squashed my self-esteem, the public school educa- 
tion I received was mediocre at best, and my efforts at adjusting myself to the 
mainstream were foiled by a sell-consciousness that would not allow me to com- 
mit the crime of mediocrity, as all my peers had done before me. My faith in 
humanity withered and died as quickh as the innocence of my youth. 

Still, I look for some spark of hope that all is not lost. I search for inspiration in 
the company of my select few- friends "Ihev are people who are true to themselves 
and no! lo the television, people who stand up for what they believe in and rail 
against the idea of living up to anyone else's standards but their own. I gather 
strength from the love of mv family and boyfriend, because i see in them thebeau- 
ty, grace and sacrifice of whn.h all human beings are capable. I cling to the idea 
that there exists a slight chance that humanity can overcome its biological urges to 
rape and destroy, and create that Utopian society ol which Thomas More so fond- 
It's an uphill battle, this search for optimism In the world today there is so lit- 
tle to have faith in: the country in which we live is lead by men of dubious back- 
grounds who steal sons from the poor to fight their wars and give money to the 
rich to keep them in power. Neighbors fight against neighbors about rights even 
so fundamental a- who has the right to l.ne whom Sometimes | wish they could 
see the world through the eyes of their children, who love and trust themselves 
and everyone else unconditionally, behave as they wish to and not how society 
would dictate them to, make friends merely by sharing a cookie, and lack the 
knowledge of thai greed so gre.it it drives men to murder. 
Truly, innocence is bliss. 



The 

Communicator 

Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed in edi- 
torials or opinion columns do not necessarily reflect the views of IPFW, its 
employees or its siudent body. A column is solely the opinion of the author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from readers. All Letters to the Editor 
and guest columns must be signed, dated and accompanied by a current, valid 
address, telephone number, and class standing/major or title. Telephone numbers 
and addresses will not be printed. All submissions made vie e-mail will be veri- 
fied by telephone or in person. 
The editorial board reserves the right to edit all submissions for length, gram- 

ar, style and clarity. 




Campus 



"What is your opinion on gay marriage?" 



B Megan Tyler, | 
Freshman: 

I-minsup- i 
port of it. I 

would call it I 

civil unions ■■| 

::H:: , :l, MM 



nth the 
» rights 

as marriages to keep it away 
from the religious aspeel by 
not calling it marriage. 



Peterson, 
Freshman: I 

kind of in the 
middle . 1 see 
it from both 
sides. I see 
how the past 
has always been guy-girl, 
but then 1 understand the 
new tradition is coming 
around. 




Mark 

Watrous, 
Senior; I am 
against gay 
marriage 
because God 
did not create 
Adam and 

Steve, he created Adam and 

Eve. 



March 17, 2004 



Opinions 



The Communicator Page 5 



Ignore the forest - look at the trees 



Now that we march boldly into 
spring, more and more prospective 
students are going on tours of Our 
Fair Campus, and I can't help but 
think back to when I first came 
onto the IPFW grounds. 

It's interesting how quickly one 
becomes accustomed to this place. 
During my first semester, the cam- 
pus seemed a maze of ugly build- 
ings, odd installations (the class 
gifts) and inconvenient pathways 
(think of the walk from Kettler to 
Williams Theatre). 

Well, the buildings are still ugly, 
the class gifts are still weird (trunk 
of the rainbow sundial) and the 
walk from Kettler to Williams is 
always going to take seven min- 
utes; but eventually, the place 
grows on you. While I hate to 
sound like I work for the admis- 
sions office, when you actually 
look at your campus, there is sur- 
prisingly more than it would 
appear. 

For example, in Classroom 
Medical, on the second floor, it 
appears that someone randomly 
painted some of the hallway walls 
red, for no reason at all. I like the 
decorative aberration, and it makes 
me wonder why someone decided 
that doing that was a good idea. 
Speaking of aberrations, over in the 
library, for some reason, there are 
two restrooms for men on the first 
floor. In my favorite building, 
Kettler Hall, all kind of retro- 
designs still exist (mostly because 
they were simply never updated). 
In addition, Kettler is home to a 
labyrinth of bright white hallways 
leading back to the administrative 
offices — when I first started here I 
somehow ended up lost back there. 



and that memory has always stuck 

The students here, much like the 
physical aspects of the campus, are 
out of the ordinary. IPFW students 
all have a story — most of us ended 
up here for some reason, and it is 
often more complicated than the 
usual college student's story. And 
while most of us aren't Harvard 
material (at least I'm not), we are 
doing just fine with our Indiana or 
Purdue degree, thank you very 
much. I know for a fact that sever- 
al of the interesting people I've met 
on campus never would have been 
able to leave their family commit- 
ments to go to a place like 
Bloomington or Lafayette. They 
say the Midwest is about conform- 
ity, but oh, the things I have seen 

None of these details about our 
campus are important, but much 
like general education require- 
ments, they make the time spent 
interesting. 



leaders are struggling against the 
reality that they do not have a cap- 
tive student body — we leave for 
home every night - but yet desper- 
ately trying to convince us other- 
wise. "Get involved!" chalk draw- 
ings encouraged us a few weeks 
ago, before rain washed away their 
energetic message. "Give me a 
good reason," 1 wanted to write 
back. Despite their good intentions 
and the noble desire to hold cam- 
pus events and build a student life, 
it is nearly impossible when 
nobody is here enough to care — 



"student hous- 
g," means that students will be 
i campus 24 hours a day. instead 



of just six or seven hours a day 
This, combined with IPFW's 
Division I status; represents two 

great milestones in the school's his- 

Whether or not this will change 
the campus as much as the hype 
would lead us to believe is not of 
great concern. Nearly all of the stu- 
dents currently attending the 
school will- not (hopefully) be 
attending when the real benefits 
from today's actions finally come 
in. So Division whatever, dorms — 
okay. Just keep my tuition under 
control. 

I think that sometimes people see 
IPFW as a "Pinocchio" of sorts, 
waiting until it can become a "real" 
college. And granted, given the 
somewhat goofy look of the build- 
ings (and the bridge) it might be 
easy to fall into that same trap. 

But think about it— IPFW has 
been up and running for a relative- 
ly short length of time — since the 
60s, and yet the amount of growth 
this campus has seen is really quite 
amazing. In 1917, 142 students (in 
12 courses) took classes in Fort 
Wayne through Indiana 

University — IPFW as we know it 
didn't even exist. And today, well, 
just go ahead and look around you 
(chances are you are reading this 
paper on campus). 

So every year, when the sheer ice 
that almost killed us in the parking 
lot turns to mud that we subse- 
quently track just about every- 
where, and we see a group of peo- 
ple holding blue folders and being 
led by someone walking back- 
wards, we know another group of 
freshmen is here to join in this sur- 
real experience. 

I don't mind the lack of gloss al 
IPFW (it keeps the tuition down), 
and besides — the details make all 
the difference. 



Good Books bring sanity and sage advice 



"Thy written word holds thy 

That is from the book of 
Revelation. I have stolen more 
quotes and thoughts and just utter- 
ly elegant sunbursts of writing 
from that book than any other 
thing in the English language. It's 
surely not because I am a biblical 
scholar of any sort, or because of a 
faith that I sometimes hold true, 
no. It is because I love the raw 
power that is written in the Bible 
that turns it into music sometimes. 
Also, that and the fact that I 
spend a lot of time away from my 
home. I divide my time between 
my job, school life here on campus 
and wandering about the back 
roads of rural Indiana on my bike 
in preparation for a coming race 
season. Thus, my access to the mas- 
sive library that I harbor in my par- 
ents basement is limited. I sudden- 
ly realize what I need and want, 
but with a deadline for a paper or 
article just an hour away, it is sim- 
ply and plainly beyond my reach. 

I found this out when I was in 
Europe. It's hard to call down to 
the hotel lobby and ask the desk 
secretary for the collected works of 
Lester Bangs or WB. Yeats at 3 
o'clock in the morning when you 
feel like writing. Although, in some 
cases I can imagine that an assorted 
volume of Mark Twain or Dr. Seuss 
might be accessible. Or maybe 
under special circumstances the 
desk secretary will pull a rabbit 
like "Fear and Loathing In Las 
Vegas" out of his hat or his own 
strange collection in his office. But 
it's not very likely. 

Memorization and fast recall 
of obscure things like page 56 from 
Kerouac's "On The Road" or what 
Bush said to Cheney after he 
almost went down from eating a 
pretzel are simply impossible to 
recall after a day of school and 
work or a hard night of binge 
drinking at the local pub. It just 
takes too much time to utilize a 
book sometimes. When you calcu- 
late going from point A to point B 
looking for an obscure passage. 
Plus, if you haven't slept in three 
days and are running on full jets 
with coffee running through your 



veins, the people at Barnes &amp; 
Noble getting a little nervous when 
you start barking like a dog and 
demanding things they've never 
heard of. 

If I am at home, or at school 
and no book or person can quash 
my thirst for literary enlighten- 
ment that is when I start bouncing 
off the walls, ripping fabric off 
chairs and running into the night 
screaming and telling my neigh- 
bors and fellow students that they, 
in fact, killed Jesus. All of this in 
the pursuit of a Bible, which I 
know is around somewhere 
because those damn Gideons hand 
them out like vomit bags at the 
local methadone clinic. 

If there is a God, I want to 
thank him for the Gideons and the 
Religious Free Press. I have dealt 
with many of God's messengers 
and found them to be entertaining 
if not totally useless, but not those 
guys. They have saved me many a 
time from being arrested when my 
neighbors threaten to call the 
police on me unless I turn off my 
loud music and go to sleep. 

The Bible itself has helped me 
with my writing and journalism. I 
was told once mat journalism is a 
calling, but I see it as sort of a habit. 
I personally believe that a photo of 
the top 10 journalists of my time 
would be a monument lo the dual- 
ity of man and human ugliness. A 
relative cornucopia of misfits, too 
crazy to be mass produced for 
wholesale but too unique to be 
extinct from the planet. Journalism 
isn't a trade that attracts slick peo- 
ple from what I have seen. You 
; the Abercrombie models 






the ; 



of 



finance types. I think the sun will 
set on the crack of my behind 
before a rag-tag war correspondent 
just in from three weeks of Hell 
graces the cover of Newsweek or 

ft is always tough to explain 
yourself on paper. But when you're 
a writer and you give your John 
Hancock to everything your write, 
that is the business you are in, 
good or bad, tough or easy. Do the 
crime, you do the time. To my hor- 
ror, I have found that phrase to be 
true many times over. It is one of 
those cheesy, barbershop gossip 
proverbs that can haunt you for the 
rest of your life. Like when Bush 



uttered on the eve of Sept. 12, 2001 
about the hunt for Osama: "He can 
run, but he can't hide." 

I rest my case. 

You see, it's a strange world 
out there my friends, and it's get- 
ting stranger every day. Every time 
I wake up it seems that life is a 
roller-coaster ride of religious fun- 
damentals and government line- 
backer plays to keep us in the dark. 
To live without ever knowing what 
was actually going on would be 
hell on earth. 

Being of a Catholic faith, I 
can't help but wonder sometimes 
what Heaven and a Hell are like. 
What do they have? What are the 
pros and cons of living either 



don boom. Millions of peopli 
rying about like church mice in 
pursuit of the one thing they need 
to fulfill their lives but alas, they 
cannot find it. Missing, no way, out 
of stock, on back order, smaller is 
better, reduce, reuse and recycle. 
Heaven, I think, is a little harder to 
place. We all have the image of the 
pearly gates with St. Peter ushering 
you in and Jesus flashing a thumbs 
up. Well, what that's not it? There 
are a lot of answers people could 
give, but not even a clergyman or a 
guru hopped up on peyote could 
tell us much of anything. What if 
all the swine of the Earth are sorted 
out and categorized? Branded with 
barcodes and social labels in their 
skin, forced to act about like "good, 
upstanding citizens." Shoved into 
holding pens and pumped full of 
prescription drugs to the point that 
they see their dead mother crawl- 
ing up their leg with a broken 
whisky bottle in her hand. 

Maybe there is no heaven or 
hell. Maybe it is all the product of 
theological gibberish, the concoc- 
tion of the whacked out mind of a 
social misfit, hell bent on living his 
life to the fullest. Sleeping late, 
drinking beer, having fun and driv- 
ing with the pedal to the metal, 
nothing on his mind but tailing in 
love and not getting caught. I 
salute that brave individual who 
takes everyday of his life with 
crazy abandon and careless disre- 
gard for his own personal safety. 

Res ipsa loquitor. Let the good 



Church, State, and Gay Marriage: 

Religious writ and social tradition have no 
bearing on legality or morality of gay marriage 

Sunday, they must pray to a specif- 
ic God. and they must read out of a 
specific holy book. The nation 
would be up in arms. Minority 
groups would come out in full 
force and support their right to 
practice religious freedom. This is 
no different than what exists in the 
gay community these days. They 
are coming from every comer of 
the country, rushing into states and 
cities that allow them to legally 
have what they've had in their 
hearts for months, and even years. 
There are those that argue that if 
we change the definition of mar- 
riage, we will have chaos erupting 
If gay partnerships 



1. 

ly binding contract between 
people. "Traditional marriage'' as 
many conservative groups and 
leaders (including our President) 
are referring to the holy wedlock 
between a man and a woman. 
This is the type ol marriage talked 
about in the Bible. 

Correct me if I'm wrong, but I 
thought our country was a land of 
religious freedom. I was under 
the impression tli.it there was to 
exist a separation between church 
and state. When you start saving 
that the only marriage that can be 
.msidered marriage is the union 



k:lu 






because that is what's mentioned 
in the Bible, there exists a situation 
where church and state indeed 
aren't separate entities, 

Many groups would argue that 
there is an equal opportunity for 



edii 

Vermont as a way of allowing 
homosexual couples to receive the 
same state benefits as given to het- 
erosexual couples. Gay couples in 
Vermont are entitled to approxi- 
mately 350 state benefits, but fail to 
be legitimate enough in the eyes of 
the Federal government and are 
unable to receive almost 1,044 fed- 
erally entitled benefits, such as 
Social Security Survivor benefits 
In essence, civil unions are nothing 
but an attempt to pacify the gay 
community in a separate-bul- 
unequal status. Groups argue that 
the traditional family needs to be 
protected, and civil unions are 
good enough for the gay commu- 
nity. 

But then again, \\.\\ ing the tradi- 
tional water fountains for the 
African-Americans was supposed 
to be good enough for them too. 

When you put defining charac- 
teristics onto something such as 
marriage, it becomes biased. 
Saying that marriage only exists 
between a man and a woman is 
placing a Christian bias onto every- 
one that wishes to commit them- 
selves to their partner. In a coun- 
try where there can not exist prayer 
in public schools, at the slight pos- 
sibility that you would end up 
offending one student, or one fam- 
ily, the government is O.K. with 
allowing such a strong Christian- 
bias to exist on something that is 
fundamental to our society. That 
is no different than saying every 
family must attend church every 



can be considered marriage, then 
polygamous situations must be 
considered marriage too. That's 
like saying, "if we allow people of 
two races to intermarry, people 
will be allowed to marry inter- 
species, too." I'd like to believe that 
we as a society are more intelligent 
than that. Just because we allow 
the marriage between a black man 
and a white woman doesn't mean 
that I want to go out and marry my 
dog, If we consent to the marriage 
of two men or two women, people 
will not flock into the streets and 
marry five wives, or get three hus- 



groups that are against the idea of 
homosexual marriage, and they are 
speaking out in protest, is it really 
any different than women getting 
the right to vote, or integrating dif- 
ferent races? Sure, it's not 'tradi- 
tional', but since when have we 
been a country to deny people of 
having their own traditions? It's 
the reason we are the melting pot 
of the world. We are such an 
incredible country because we take 
everyone in and create Americans. 
We would never dream of denying 
someone of their right to vote, or 
denying a white child education in 
a non-white segment of town, so 
who are we now to say that two 
people that love one another and 



fits of their neighbors, just because 
they aren't attracted to someone of 
the opposite sex? 

Just because you wouldn't go 
out and marry another woman, or 
marry another man, doesn't mean 
it's wrong, amoral, or unethical. 
They aren't asking to have the laws 
changed so that every straight cou- 
ple in the country has to go out and 
become homosexual. They're not 
even asking you to attend their 
wedding or buy them presents. 
All they want is to be recognized, 
and to be treated as equals, and 
that's what this country was 
founded on, in the beginning. Just 
remember, slavery was once tradi- 



Remembering Mike Rice 



from Page 2 



game right I'm still wailing for the 
last bit of his advice. He never 
ceased to amaze me though. 

Everyone at Walb knew Mike 
for his laughs and his outrageous 

He wasn't the only one who 
pulled stunts though. We'd pull 
them right back on him. On his 
25" 1 birthday this year, a few co- 
workers and myself decorated the 

After cleaning up an event, 
we found a Queen sign. Well, along 
came famous Walb humor, and 
Mike was instantly the new queen. 
We made signs that said, "All Hail 
The Queen and "Long Live The 
Queen." We also were making fun 
of him for being so old, so instead 
of putting up signs that said 
"Happy 25 th Birthday," we put up 
"Happy 30 th Birthday." We also 
made this outrageous crown, and 
Mike, well he loved it and wore it. 

I'll never forget the bad cop- 
worse cop games that he and Steve 
George would play. I also started 



ithing." I'll never forget how 
much I laughed with him and the 
crazy things he'd think of doing. 
Half the time, I would wimp out. 
Now, I never look back, and 
instead of being afraid, I look at it 
with the attitude, what doesn't kill 
you makes you stronger. 

There are so many things that 
Mike did and not enough time or 
space to write it here, but the one 
thing I leared from Mike was: who 
cares what people think about you. 
If you are having fun and laughing, 
then that's all that matters. 

Mondays aren't the same any- 
more. Sometimes it's hard to get up 
and come to work when I know 
that Mike won't be here - and it 
won't be near as much fun as it 

However, I do know that I 
can't just stop living life. I've got to 
put my best foot forward and go. 
Even though he's not here physi- 
cally, he's here spiritually. 







Please remember: 

Recycle this paper. 

Thanks for your support. 



Page 6 The Communicator 



arts and entertainment- 



March 17, 2004 




7t«r/ky aM Hutch' bring th« /winging f •'/ t* the big /«r«en 



and I 



ml white 
i dash of 
e the makings 



funky 70's tunes and you have 
for the new Ben Stiller and C 

flick, Sl.irskv and I KiUh A re-make of the hit 
TV series of the same mime, Starsky and 
Hutch is the story of two cops, One who 
plays by the rulebnok, and the other who 
never read it. The duo bust moves around 
Bay City, mopping up bad guys in their 1975 
Ford Grand Torino. 

The story kicks in like this; David 
Starsky (Stiller) is on the pursuit ol a drug 
kingpin, played hilariously by Vince 
Vaughn, he is mil to move a huge shipment 
of cocaine into Bay 
City, Whei 




attempt to take him d 
Chief orders him to have a part- 
ner. Prompting the entrance of 
Detective David Hutchi 
"Hutch" as the gang ca 
The Chief pairs the two of thei 

As they pursue Vaughn' 
character, the two criss-cros 
/and 

-fuggy Bear, played by 
multi-platinum rapper Snoop 
(Yeah, the Doggy guy). With 
him in tow, they uncover his 
plot to cart not just cocaine but 
untraceable cocaine into the 
by means of airplanes and 
boats, This prompts one of 
Vaughn's many hilarious solilo- 
quies. Trust me, they are funny. 
The movie winds down with a 
massive chase between 
Vaughn's character and Starsky 




adaptation of 'Starsky and Hutch' 



the Torinointo the Bay i 

land on top of Vaughn's escap- 
But (here's a twist, Muggy Bear 
s in to save the day by Llubbing 
nighn's on the head and stop- 
nig his flight to injustice. The 
no is marked by guest of 
i p pea ram es by the original 
Starsky and ' Hutch, Paul 
Muhael (.laser and David Soul 
rom the TV series. 

In its whole, Starsky and 

I lukh made me smile 1 have seen 

two Ben Stiller movies in the past 2 

months and this was the better of the 

/o. The combination of Wilson and 

Stiller brings more comedic power to the 



. I think. Ben Stiller is a wonder 
but I don't feel that he can cai 
&gt; on his own. He needs a sidekick 
play-off of. In this 
have a comedic timing that is 



the 



ndWi 



hie to thai ol Bill Murray in Caddyshack. 

With the addition ol Snoop as Huggv 
Bear made me laugh even harder He brings 
certain flair to the screen, winch is very rem- 
iniscence of the hlaxploilalion films of the 
era like "Shaft" and "Super Fly". Plus, his 
comedic acting is about as dead on as Wilson 
and Stiller 's. He delivers one-liners with 
accuracy and talent of a seasoned actor. 

As a whole, the movie surprised me. I 
enjoyed it mainly tor the fact that it genuine- 
ly t the movie sagged on dialogue and the 



thing." I have n 
other time in a movie.' The reason is, its 
something a real person would say. I would 
say something like that i 



that. 



i this r 



My final words c 

Starsky and Hutch, aside from its low times 
in dialogue delivers on a blue-collar comedy 
level. It is the story of two cops, both trying 
to be the best ihe\ can through their own 
ways. So take you $h and fifty cents to Rave 
and check out Starsky and Hutch this week- 
end. Do it. Just do it. 




The Indiana Professional Standards Board (IPSB) announced January 
21, 2004 their approval of the new Bachelor of Arts in Arts Education program 
at IPFW. Students at IPFW will receive an "All School Settings" license, along 
with their teaching certificate, upon completion of the IPFW program. IPFW 
has worked more than a decade to make the Art Education degree program a 
reality and have received an overwhelming response. Dr. Lorraine Ross, pro- 
fessor of Art Education has recruited 27 students for the program, after only 
one semester. To find out more about this exciting opportunity to combine 
concentrated study In fine arts studies while developing expertise in teaching, 
call Dr. Ross at 481- 6877. 



Artink Contemporary Art Gallery is having an event entitled "Self Portraits" from 
April 9th to May 12th, 2004. The exhibit will feature art by 90 artists using various 
media to create a self-image. The opening is Friday evening. April 9th, from 7pm to 
9pm. No reservation necessary. Artlink hours are Tuesday through Saturday 12- 
5pm, Sunday, 1-5pm, and Friday and Saturday evening hours are 6-9prn. 

The work will include drawing, painting, sculture and photography. Color and 
black and white will cover the walls. This exceptionally targe show will be crowded 
on the walls. The positive response to this exhibition is eceptional, but Artlink will 
present all work that conforms to the size and boundaires. All the artists are from the 
surrounding area and are members of Artlink. 



s published in the Community Calendar, send information at least two weeks 



Concert brings various sounds 



Sunday's Philharmonic concert, 
"Kaleidoscope.. The Colors of theOrehestra" 
was a terrific blend of music with a French 



chanal. The strings were somewhat taint 
when the rest of the orchestra was at torte, 
but the finish of the piece was very well 
done - a rousing finish that brought forth a 
hearty hale of applause. 

The next piece, selections from La 
Boutique Fantastique (The Fantastic 
Toyshop, by Rossini /Ue-pigliii. began with 
the Tarantella, flitted into the Can-Can, and 
finished with the Galop Ihe larantella was 
rather like a military tap dance - full ol brass 




cantering. 

Next came Ravel's Pavane Pour Une 
Infante Defunte (Pavane for a Dead 

Princess). It was appropriately solemn, some 
notes falling like drops rippling in a calm 
pool. More dynamic control was displayed 
in the performance of this piece than in the 
previous pieces, mutating what the conduc- 
tor had described as a " ha/.y piece ... simi- 
lar to an impressionist painting...". The 
music was so effective that one or two chil- 
dren tried to sing along as the piece quietly 
ended on harmonic tones. 

Pacific 231 (Honegger), next, was sup- 
posed to imitate a steam locomotive. First, 
the cymbals shimmered the engine's fire to 
life, the basses groaned the wheels to life, 
and the bras-, answered the basses in the ini- 
tial wheel chinning I he train shrieked to a 
halt with a great discord, then yielded to 
another shower of applause. 

Following this was the 2004 Fame 
Composition Project, directed by David 
Crow. Over twenty fourth graders from area 
Ft. Wayne schools participated in the com- 
position ol this orchestral song, which also 
involved the assistance of Helen Frost for 
lyrics, David Crowe for composition, and 
Rosalie Becker and Franek Hagendorf (who 
did the vocal solos) The piece was probably 
the best Fame composition in vears - it was a 
cheerful piece, flitting from one merry 
theme to the next. The Philharmonic played 
it twice, to follow the French tradition of 
playing pieces twice at premiers. 

Finally came Saint-Saen's Symphony 
No. 3 "Organ": Finale. The Philharmonic 
performed this piece with the entire Fort 
Wayne Youth Symphony and the Embassy 
Organ. This was excellently done - the com- 
bini'd orchestras sounded quite prok-ssion- 
al. The piece dramatically finished and was 
met yvith thunderous applause, earning the 
conductor two bows. The "Organ" piece 



'24 hr' puts on a good show 



One never knows what to expect when 
the lights go up at a 24-hour playhouse 
Last-minute desperation provides an inter- 
esting muse, and the results are at the very 
least always unexpected for the audience. 

However, in the latest playhouse, pre- 
formed on March 13, some of the familiar 
was re-introduced into the mix of the play- 
house, thus leading to the theme for the lat- 
est production: 1 he Return of the Son of the 
Bride of the 24Houi 
Playhouse Redux 
Reloaded Again.' 
Clearly, as the pro- 



zation likes to take a 
joke and run with 
it." And for this per- 
formance, they 



theatre, (though small to begin with) hosted 
a full crowd while the band Krimsha pro- 
vided acoushc pre-show music. 

The premise for actual production 
included asking two of the previous 24-hour 
playwrights, Chris Colcord and Jason Graf 
(creators of the playhouse pieces "Carmen 
Becomes Electra" and "Zany Fun Happy 
Time" respectively) to write another script 
that in some way associated with their orig- 
inal pieces, though nsmg different characters 
(the producers correctly realized that asking 
actors to memorize two scripts in one night 
was perhaps too much). The two scripts, 
both classic and new, were then presented to 
the audience. 

The twist 
proved to be 



12-year old girl. The addendum to ''Zany 
Fun Happy Time," entitled "Three Hours 
Later," was an irreverent, rather upbeat look 
at the life of a television show producer after 
her actors try to kill each other on air and 
cancel the show. 

The acting was also excellent, and there 
were very few instances wherein in the 
actors forgot their lines. Given the few hours 
in which they had to practice, this is com- 
mendable Overall performance was effec- 
tively timed and fresh, and no one actor 
seemed to demand 




Bradley Thachuk a 



talented to garner approbation. Their 

appearance was appreciated, though in the 
opinion of main guests, not enough to ask 
hack again. The band also had been chal- 
lenged to write a song in 24 hours (about a 
vodka bottle). The song was good enough, 
but not very original as far as alt-rock goes. 
However, the idea of including music 



the 24-hour formula 
s as the products of the 
writers cieany demonstrated. Since the Qual- 
ity of the original scripts was enougn to 

demand an encore, their quality almost c,oes 
without saying. Colcord's second creation 



ntioned that they hoped 
more plays to be redone in the 
if they found this production (■ 
Judging by the audience i 



March 17, 2004 



A&amp;E 

- arts and entertainment- 



The Communicator Page 7 



IPFW student releases first novel 

'Threat Level: Severe' attempts to display devastation of terrorism 



"The way the whole process works, you c 
get published without having an agent, but yoi 



Ohio, Wes Matsel w.is thinking about global threats. 
He found an intersection between what the course 
was teaching and plausible arts of terrorism. 

"I just figured 'Why couldn't it happen?'" 
Matsel said. 

It is an attack ag.iinst America deep in the 
heartland - and it became a plotline (or a fictional 
story he spent the next 18 months researching and 

Matsel is an IPFW student working toward a 
General Studies degree with a minor in 
Communications. He! ore enrolling at IPFW, he'd 
been in the military for nine years — four years i 



i specialist and five as a medical techni- 
cian. Combining hi-, knowledge of the Air Force, the 
college course am:\ expertise from a few friends and 
family also in the military, he came up with the 
novel called "Threat Level: Severe." 

"The more 1 wrote, the more I expanded it," he 
explained. 



e aimed at nuclear and the other 

tal devastation. M.dsel's fiction messes with history, 
with the recent turmoil in Iraq setting up a new 
Hussein as its ruler, and a new dictator coming to 
power in Cuba. 

Military and I lomi'laiut Security members are 
the main characters in the story, and with characters 
traversing the world, from Iraq to New York to 
Havana, it is a Tom CUincy-esque genre. 



think about it. it is .ill about making it better for the 
next time. I welcome their opinions," he said. 

The 241-page manuscript, available on web- 
sites for Amazon and Barnes and Noble, was pub- 
lished through 1st Books in Bloomington. On 
Amazon, it sells for $13.50, while on Barnes and 
Noble, it costs $12.15. 

Publishing through 1st Hooks in an exercise in 
on-demand publishing - he anted up the initial cost 
in hopes of having others pun base his novel. 



I't get an agent without being published,' he 

,vith the 

s also working 411-hour weeks and attending col- 
lege classes at the same time While he even admits 
to some disappointments in the manuscript, he 
believes it has been a good starting point and an 
enjoyable experience. 

"Creating the characters was the fun part. 
Making everyone different, it was a challenge," he 
said. "I haven't read it in this form yet. But the idea 
is growing on me." 

Once he became addicted to the project, he'd 
had to make sure facts were consistent from page 
one to page 241. That wasn't as easy as it may seem, 
\l. it-el indicated. 

"I'd have to go back and make things match 
up. It was frustrating and yet also rewarding," he 

; from just 



"A lot of i 
a lot of 'what if ■ 
One of the i 

their weaponry along a rarely-checked portu 



nof 

American coastline. 

"Everyone worries about the main ports, but 
you can sneak in about anywhere." 

And it also became a storyline he has expand- 
ed in his mind along with paper. He has finished a 
follow-up project titled "Cover of Darkness." 

"It'll probably sit in my computer until I get an 
agent," he explained. 

Currently, he is living in Auburn with his wife 
and his hopes to be picked up as a new author for 
book shelves. 

"I'd like to write, but it is a matter of finding an 
agent and that process," Matsel said. 



In the meantime, he pin - with the characters 
he's already created. Along with "Cover of 
Darkness," Matsel is starling a third manuscript in 
the series. Initially, its called "Retribution." 

The nice part of writing, Matsel notes, is there 



Publishing 



ibea 



s circle of denials — 




1 ki» Wes Matsel hold: 




DON'T MISS PUT! 
SPACE IS STILL AVAILABLE BUT GOING FAST! 



the Ytt standard 
in student living 




amenities 



' Individual Housing Agreements 

• Furnished Bedroom 

■ Furnished Living Room 

■ Fully Equipped Kitchen 

» Dining Area with Chairs 

» High-speed Internet and Cable Television Service 

» Community Center 

' Social Lounge with Big Screen Television 

&gt; 24-Hour Laundry Facilities 

• Fitness Center 

1 Basketball Sport Court 
1 Computer Learning Center/Cyber Lounge 
' On-site Community Assistant Staff 
' On-site Management and Maintenance 
1 Housing for IPFW Students including Allen 
County Residents 

OPENING FALL 2004! 



IPFW 
Student 
Housing 



INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

Kettler Hall G98F • 2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, Indiana 46805 
www.IPFWstudenthousing.com • email: info@IPFWstudenthousing.com 



PROFESSIONALLY MA 



AFRICAN CAMPUS CO* 



Page 8 The Communicator 



Features 



March 17, 2004 



IPFW professor weds in San Francisco 



They had initially planned on 
i kepi an i w mi Massachuettes 



DiClemenli was hospitalized after 

Reluming home, they 

w.iUi.lI Hit- marriages on lelevi- 

sion and were keeping tabs on the 
happenings 

"I was jusl playing around on 

the compute] one day and thought 
'I el me diet k .in lares ' I kepi wait- 
ing for the courts to say Slop' but 
they weren'l doing il II was going 

on anil on. I gol online one morn- 
ing, found some good airfares and 

we said 'I et's do it.'" 

The COUpIe wriggled lour 

days mio their schedules, (lew out 
to San Franscisco and were met by 
relatives who acted as witnesses to 
the evenl DiClemend's marriage 
wasn't jusl a secular signage of 

papei inside the San Pram tst o 



from Page 1 

And it isn't just something for 
the couple to do. Even though it's 
likely few places will recognize fin- 
union, it is a first step loward not 
just emotional, but legal fulfill 



Durable Tower of Attorney that 
allows her to help take care of 
DiClemenli. Without the paper- 
work, she may be blocked by hos- 
pilal personnel not understanding 
the relationship. 

"She is the person who knows 
my medical history the best. She 
knows my doctor. But they &lt; 



led hei 



to 



able 



goes 






family i 



over Other 

re unable Ui 
ipid pate ol 



attend beci 
the decisio 

"We planned it al the last 
minute." Di&lt; lemenli explained 
"lt's|iisl really fun. Il feelsgood, It's 
an emotional charge. Our relation- 
ship hasn't ihanged, I he jewelry 
has, clearly,' she smiled, showing 
her new welding band on her ring 
finger. 



which would have indirectly 
denied me access to good medical 
care. Any heterosexual couple, they 
wouldn't have said boo to them," 
DiClemenli said. 

Having the marriage should 

remind people thej are committed 

to. belter and tor nurse. 

"We have a license and it's 
signed by everybody - and that's 
fun," she said. 

It was a fun week for the cou- 
ple, with a dozen other same-sex 
couples In Ihe Clerk's office at the 
same time City Clerk workers 
seemed thrilled with the experi- 
ence, DiClemenli explained. 

Couples helped one another 
with taking photographs of the 
civil marriage ceremonies, and she 
simply described the time as fun. 

She said her new marriage 
was also applauded at a resleraunt 
in San Francisco - and she has also 
received congratulations from col- 
legues back at IPFW. While 



DiClemenli doesn't openly discuss 
her private life to classes, she does- 
n't hide it from anyone who asks. 
And she's proud of steps she's 
taken as an activist in the gay-les- 
bian-transgendered community. 
While she and Ross lived in 
Denver, they sued the city in a case 
that led to the Mile High City 
changing the definition of domestic 

"We're also responsible for the 
word 'lesbian' appearing above- 
the-fold on the front page of the 
Denver Post for the first time in 
history," she laments with a smile. 

She compares the struggles of 
the homosexual community with 
Ihe Civil Rights fight of African 
Americans in the 1950s and 1960s, 
The Civil Rights community itself 
is split in the fight - with Correta 
Scott King supporting gay rights, 
while two of her children aren't in 
favor of extending every legal 
advantage to homosexual. 

"Gays, lesbians and transgen- 
dered persons are one of the last 
groups that it's okay to discrimi- 
nate against," she said. 

She said San Francisco Mayor 
Gavin Newsom has brought the 
fight ahead by decades. 

"He put it right where it needs 
to be. And when all else fails, civil 
disobedience," she said. 




Thes 



ieryi 



to be in a strange cycle right now 
where segments like the homosex- 
ual community are becoming more 
demanding for rights, and the gov- 
ernment is seemingly becoming 
more conservative in response, she 
noted. 

"It's very circular. In any kind 
of a system, when one member or 
one part of a system tries to make a 



Wearing shaws provided by members of a Denver church 
group, newlyweds Jeannie DiOementi and Mary Ross pose. 

change, the automatic response of 
the rest of the system is to get 
things back to status quo - but 
there's no starting or ending point," 
she said. 

But she worries that it will 
lead to a new round of gaybashing, 
a number she suspects will rise -■ 
saying it is common for more 
attacks against homosexual to take 
place when they are more visible to 
the rest of the world. 

DiClemenri has trouble with 
some of the catch phrases, saving 
"civil unions'' is noting more than 



"People think religion has 
ownership of the concept of mar- 
riage. If people read the history -- 
marriage started out many cen- 
turies ago as business. It was how 
people joined property by having a 
contractual arrangement between 



their children. At some point along 
the way, organized religion got a 
hold of it," she said. 

And while she understands 
that many people debate the 
morality of same-sex marriage, she 
questions if many of those people 
are casting stones when their hous- 
es are far from shatterproof as it is. 

"Quite frankly, take a look at 
the divorce rate in heterosexuals, I 
don't know that they should be 
bragging. The divorce rate is over 
50 percent still," she said. 

Civil unions are done in the 
heterosexual community through 
judges, while religious officials 
tend to be the ones who marry — 
but DiClementi questions if any of 
those facts are fair to the homosex- 




SATURDAY • APRIL 10TH • 8:00 P.M. 

DOORS OPEN AT 7:00 P.M. 



w betwien Mr* mo ihen Tickets available at 

- in Slims now the Memorial Coliseum Ticket Office, 

www.ticketmaster.com, 
all |a| ffffif3 outlets or charge by phone @ 260-424-1 81 1 . 



FINANCIAL AID 
AVAILABLE 



Were you in foster care 
between the ages of 14-18 and 
currently under the age of 21? 



If yes, then you may be eligible 
for the Education and Training 
Voucher Program. 

The program offers up to 
$5000 annually towards 
educational expenses. 

For more information, or to 
obtain an application, visit our 
website: 



http://www.bsu.edu/ssrc/il 



(765) 285-4292 



Paid for by the Social Science Research Center at Ball State University 



March 17, 2004 



Sports 



The Communicator Page 9 



IPFW women on the right track for '04-05 



In late October of last year, coach Bruce 
Patterson and the IPFW women's basketball 
team were fully aware of the difficult road that 
they would face in the forth-coming season. 
And for the team, it was those game-to-game 
inconsistencies th.it made the road bumpiest. 

"This team, whether it's youth, I don't 
know, but we especi.ilh don't play well in two 
game stands," said Patterson. "When we 
played hard all of the time, we were a pretty 
good basketball team." 

After two semi-convincing wins over St. 
Francis and Bethel in exhibition games, the 
Lady Dons fell in their first five games of the 
season. Their closest game during that stretch 
was a 70-64 loss to Arkansas-Little Rock at the 
Saint Louis Tournament. In their second game 
in the tournament, a consolation game, the 
Mastodons couldn't stay with non-major 
opponent Stony Brook, losing 83-66. 

Coming off of a 9-19 outing in 2002-2003, 
and an extensive off-e.ison tr.iining regimen, 
the 0-5 start was far from what Patterson and 
company was looking for. During that stretch, 
the team also fell to Kentucky. Louisville and 
a 22-point loss to Ball State in the first of their 
three games played at the Memorial 



opening of the season resembled that of the 
2002-2003 campaign, who spoke in a presea- 
son interview about how the team went 
through rough times early on in 2002 against 
talented programs. 

The squad did begin to turn things 
around in December, going 3-3 during the 



up. 

The new calendar \ear brought with it a 
winning attitude. Gearlds provided the extra 
boost in the first game of 2(1114, providing 31 
points in a 102-82 win over Morehead State. 
Two days later, Gearlds put in 30 more points 
and Courtney Nicley added 18 as the Dons 
toppled Air Force, 83-70. 

On Feb. 7, Gearlds reached a historic per- 
sonal plateau in a loss to Illinois-Chicago. It 

" l that game, with i 



The point's also boosted Gearlds into number 
four on the all-time women's scoring list for 
the school. By season's end, Gearlds reached 
third on that list. 

"It was a weight off the team and I had a 
lot of pride," said Patterson. "I am an Amy 
Gearlds fan," he added. "A couple of days 
after our last game, she entered the hospital to 




returned home 
on Feb. 23 with 
a vengeance for 
Senior Night. 
The two 5 

Kruening 

points in an 82- Amy Geards worked her way up the IPFW &lt; 

69 victory over with 494 points. She is finished her c 

Wright State, scoring list with 1,588 points. 

Gearlds put in a 

game high 26 points and Bruening finished selves that ■ 

one assist shy of a double double with IS compete,"^, 

points and i " 



ven on a higher level we could 

id I'atterMin. "The disappointing 
ehad some games that we didn't 



2003-04 Results 
8-20 record 
November 



L, 93-75 

©Sain! Louis rmmt 

Arkansas-little Rock 

L,70*4 

Stony Brook 



(Coi 



February 



@ Akron 

W, 55-54 

«'&lt;' Howling Green S| 
L, 91-68 

VALPARAISO'^! C_ 
L, 86-60 
UTAIISIA1I 
W, 83-74 
INDIANASIAIF 



W, 83-70 

vi Colorado State 

L, 78-63 

© Wisconsin 

L, 75-59 

CHICAGO ST.OMC 

W, 84-64 

Wist ONSIN-G.B. 

L, 80-71 

«" Youngs low n State 

L, 72-62 

© Cleveland State 

W, 82-81 

TEXAS - PAN AM 

L, 75-72 

TEXAS A&amp;M-C.C. 

L, 76-68 

ILLINOIS -CHICAGO 

L, 91-68 

""" Wisi onsi-Mil. 

L, 87-67 

&lt;»&gt; Wisconsin - G.B. 

L, 77-54 



5 Tex, 



- Pan 



L, 80-55 

&lt;») Texas A&amp;M - C.C. 
L, 82-79 OT 
WRIGHT STATE 
W, 82-69 
©Valparaiso 
L, 80-85 



West Coast Gauchos stop Volleydons 



By IPFW News Services 

Outside hitter Evan Patak had match-high 15 
kills, four service aces and five block assists to lead 
the UC Santa Barbara 
Gauchos men's volley- 
ball team to a 30-20, 
30-27, 30-27 win over 
visiting IPFW March 
12 in Robertson Gym. 



Volleyball 
roundup 



ter Adam Ulfers also contributed 13 kills and five 
block assists Jake Wiens and Micheal Kenned\ had 
10 kills each. Kennedy had a match-high 6 block 
assists to help pace the Gauchos to the win. 
Freshmen setter Bryan Berman had match-high 4&lt;i 
assists. Libero Aaron Mansfield had 13 digs. 



Federation hit .340 a 



Outside hitter Matt 7b\ -./ewski had seven kills 
while Mitch Dieisbach had six kills Setter Dennis 
Santiago had 25 assists. Libero Isaac White had two 
Freshmen outside hit- digs. 



Women's track, field competes 
in Florida during Spring Break 

By Amie Sarka 

The Communicator 

IPFW's womens track and field team headed down to 
Tallahassee, Florida to compete in the Honda Agriculture and Mining 
University (FAMU) relay March 12th and 13th. 

The distance medley relay, consisting of members Brtanne 
Gilford, Ashley Ritchey. and Lauren and Kirslen Simpson, set a school 
record and finishing third overall. 

Lauren Simpson broke the school record in the }K Steeplechase, 
finishing second overall. 



Colts hold try-outs for cheerleaders 



Think of US as 



On March 4th, the Thursday 
before IPFW went on spring break, 
tryouts were held in the Hillard 
Gates Sports for positions on the 
Indianapolis Colts cheerleading 
squad. Dozens of athletic women 
from all over the Midwest regis- 
tered for the event, which was 
closed to the public. Goose and 
Vann of 96.3 fm, and Matt Jericho 
and Don Walker of 102.3 fm had 
the distinguished privilege of 
judging the tryouts. 

Those competing for a $50 a 
week job cheering for the AFC 
South champions were a diverse 
group, ranging from therapist and 
teachers to homemakers, students 
and the unemployed. 

Erica Dawns, who recently 
moved to Fort Wayne from 
Massachusetts, felt her chances on 
making the final cut were pretty 
good. She apologized to everyone 
in the gym for the New England 
Patriots defeating the Colts in the 
AFC title game. 

Tryouts are still scheduled to 
be held in LaPorte, Evansville, and 
Indianapolis. 



Above, cheerleader 
candidates pose for a 
photo with two disc 
jockeys from Hits 
96.3. Right, Valerie 
Zimmerman (fore- 
groud) and others 
try to impress cheer- 
leading scouts for 
the Indianapolis 
Colts on March 4 at 
IPFW. 



^1 funding 



•1 




for your 

social life. 



s, Servers, Cashiers/Retail Sales and Nigh! J; 



• Advancement opportunities 

Interviewing Monday ■ Fnday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. 
Saiuntoy 9 a.m. -2:00 p.m. 

Stop by: 1042? E. Maysville fid.. Ft. Wayne, IN 
0f(l-4G9 &amp; Sft 32. Exit 25 
Or call: 260-492-2500 

www.crackerbarrel.com 



Page 10 The Communicator 



Sports 



March 17, 2004 



'Things just kind of unraveled for us 



-2004 Simon, Noll and 
his leammates 
, us - know he is capa- 
j ijjlp blc of doing 



After losing sophomore Quinlor 
Carouthers to a season-ending shoulde 

injury in a home win .ie,.nnsl Htuvlrn&gt;; l.tcn 



much with my 
skills. Now. I 
think 1 am used to 

m\ role this yea 
Some sporl: 



uldn'.gei tftoge 




"Knowing 
■ had David on IPFW's schedule waj 
.' floor was a school, the Mastodot 



iu Bauer said. "He is tremei 
position worried about him s 
i other guys were able to get the s 



i much needed playing time Along the hat but circumstances made us go that 



Overall, it wasn't a season that will go 
down in IPFW history, but the little things 
___■ starting three that happened hopefully will turn into big 
The benefits of the departure of other freshmen," Noll said. "We did not expect things next year. 
players enabled inexperienced freshmen to them to get so much playing time right off Wins. 



stuff done on the offensive end " 



"Sometimes 



Much hope for '04-05 



Seniors leave 
behind a legacy 




IPFW beat 

Indiana St., and San 
ers for Jason's servic 

Yet despite the 
thing will revolve around one g 
Simon. With the inside help Simon \ 
have next season, he should be able to 
even more dominant in the paint 

"What we need toseeln.m Dav 



t plead our case and let them 
know that we would be honored to be 
in the Mid-Con, that's all we can do," 
Noll said. "We are constantly trying to 
get into a league and there are a lot of 
people pulling for 
happens you will ; 
Jid take 



. 1 think c 
3 another level. We v 



him taking 3 or 4 steps on defense,'' Noll just wait and see, but in the meantime 

said. "He is far away from (Connecticut we are just going to keep going about 

center) Emeka Oka tor on the defensive our business and e,et back to some sue- 

end. He knows that and we are going to cess in the win column." 
work on that in the spring. If he really 



# By the Numbers # 

Comparing IPFW, IUPUI, Purdue 
and Indiana's season schedules 

Strength of schedule - (Lower means tougher) 

Indiana - 37 

IPFW - 100 

Purdue - 119 

IUPUI - 258 

RPI - (Ratings Percentage Index) Team, oppo 

nent, and opponent's-opponenfs win percent 

combined. 
IPFW -.4116 
IUPUI - .5062 
Purdue - .5378 

ma - .5443 

NCAA Rank (of 326 Division-I teams) 
Indiana - 86 
Purdue - 98 
IUPUI - 142 
IPFW • 304 



to show Keion Henderson and Coach 
the fresh- Doug Noll embrace after the 
play- Senior Night game. 

f the year, 
the guys," Noll said. 
"Hopefully what some guys learned this 
season will help out the players next sea- 
Henderson says he doesn't plan to 
disappear from the team entirely, either. 

"Just because you aren't bouncing 
the ball doesn't mean you can't be 
involved with the team," Henderson 
said. "I'll be there for the games. 1 hope 
I'm leaving a legacy that the other guys 
will build on, that's how Division-I pro- 
grams are made." 



