WEDNESDAY, 
August 29, 2001 

/lPFW\. 



Response to Ttight.' p 2 j Student Success, p. 3 Curtain CaU, p. 4 ' Soccer showcase, p. 6 

IINSID^ OPINIONS j HIGHUGins FEATURES I SPORTS | °"'^d"7'^' 



The 



W COMMUNICATOR^i^' 



Indiana Universih/ — Purdue University Fort Wayne 



Volume 36, Issue 2 



News Briefs 

IPFW School of Education 
receives $122,000 grant 

The IPFW School of Educalion rereived 
5122,000 from Ihe Indiana Professional Standards 
Board as pari of a Tillc II K-16 Transilion 
Partnership giaiil. 

The gianl will be used lo expand the School of 
Education's present collaboration with East Allen 
County Schools (EACS) into a K-16 transition 
mcntorship-parlnership. Special emphasis will 
be placed on wotldng with faculty al schools 
with high minority enrollmenl. The money will 
also allow the School oi Education to develop a 
data management system and hire a data manag- 
er to track the progress and effectiveness of pro- 
grarru and tcaoicr candidates. 

The one-year grant begins in September and 
IPf^ is eligible lo reappfy for the granl for (he 
2002-03 school year. 

Last call for Pulin Sampat 
Award applications 

IPFW students who have conducted under- 
graduate research may be eligible for the annual 
Pulin Sampal Memonal Undergraduate Research 
Award. The recipient ol this award will receive a 
S250 prize and be recognized al the IPFW Honors 
Convocation on Sept- 50. 

A five-member panel of judges, comprised of 
four faculty members from four different schools 
within IPFw, as well as one undergraduate judge 
selected by Ihe Inlcrnalional Students' 
Organization, will select the winner. 

Applications are available in Ihe Office of 
Mullicultural Services, Walb Student Union, 
Room liB, and must be relumed to Ihat office by 
Sept. 7. 

Students, faculty invited to 
review strategic plan 

All IPnV studenis, faculty and staff arc invit- 
ed to participate in the campus-wide review of 
IPFW's dralt strategic plan, available eleclronl- 
cally at: 



v.ipfw.cdu/v 



ia/AA_affairs/OAAinfoJitm 



The university will update the plan "to focus 
efforts on. strategic priorities, lo guide the alloca- 
tion of resources and to assess programs in 
achievinc IPRV's nussion." reads Ijie draft of the 

The university will have two question and 
answer sessions on Sept. 12, noon-l:l5 p.m. and 
Sept. 20, 3-1:15 p.m., bolh in Kelller 146. 

Student organizations 
suite rer\ovation complete 

IPFW has transformed the shident organiza- 
tions suite. Walb Union 214, into a more modern 
and accessible place for students and student 
groups to meet. 

The suite ol offices, which houses most of (he 
campus student groups, now features a small, 
livo-unit computer lab complete with printer. 

The university also connected rooms 214 and 
2IS so that groups could use the latter as a meet- 
ing n&gt;om. 

"We've wailed years to see Ihis level of invest- 
ment put into Ine student suile," said Jeff 
Sterling, advisor to United Sexualilies. 

Sterling said the improvements have "created 
a more conducive environment and give student 
groups more options lo perform their duties." He 
addM that the changes make the suite more pro- 
fessional in appearance. 



Weather 



Today 

High: SI 
Low: 54 

Thursday 

Mostly Cloudy 
High: Bl 
Low: 61 

Showei5 
High: 77 
Low: 63 



Opinions 

Highlights 

Features 

Sports 6, 7 

C^pus/Region ,8- 



Campus unveils new sports logo 



By Todd Hamm. News Editor 

As IPFW makes the transition 
schc&gt;ol. university adminislrators 



3 Divisi 



. _ , revampmg 

Ihe campus and its image. 

Part of this renovation includes overhauling the 
logo of the ath- 
letic depart- 



restylized 
Mastodon 

logo. 

According 

administrators: 

logo 
fessional in appeal 
and on par with other 
Division I school logos. 

The logo includes Ihe 
Mastodon mascot and the 
school colors. It also incorpo- 
rates parts of IPFW's school 
logo, which also underwent a 
major redesign about a year and 
a half ago. 

The designer of Ihe new logo, 
Lea Ann Gebhard. also created Ihe design for 
Ihe updated university services card. 

According to Mike Jewell, sports information 



director for athletics, recreation and mtramural 
sports, the logo took most of the post four months 
to complete, going through a number of drafts 
and reciesigns. 



the logo on them at the IPFW Follctt' 
Bookstore. 

lewell said Ihe Athletic departmen 
intends to eventually add the logo t 




-I thinl 



lally 



l-shir 



researched hun- 
dreds of logos from 
other Division I schcsjls 
o gel ideas for what 
they wanted to see in Ihe 

ity Relations 

and Communications is 

dclighled with how the 

Mastodon logo turned out," 

said Bart Tyner. IPFW web site 

coordinator "Gebhard created a 



harp. It has similarillcs lO' 
tne new ift-w logo, yet it also incorpu- 
rales the mastodon, which our dcparl* 
ment fell was very important." Athletic: 
Director Mark Pope said. 'I think ll't: 
great Ihat our athletic department could- 
collaborate on a new design and present- 
il to me jusi days after 1 began the post-' 
lion of athletic director 

-1 think it was lime to freshen up Ihe 
logo to bring it more up-to-dalc-and to 

frovidc the students with a new design.. 
[ you look at collcgialc logos around Ihe 
country, you'll see Ihat ours is very simi- 
lar to Ihe better desigtis We're very 

Tyner said he and other adminislrators 
have only had a few reactions to the new 
logo. These reactions, he said, have been 



fav( 

we haven 

yet." 

Pope sa 
very posi 



. "Sin 



the design i 



eivcd , 



of feedback 
Ion has been 



esign and many are asking 
^ill produce shirts and hats 



Faculty join music department 



By Brandon Schwarze, Staff Writer 

Four new faculty members have joined Ihe 
IPFW department of music this semester, 
including an interim department chair 

Morton Achter comes from a part-time fac- 
ulty position at Ferris State University in Big 
Rapids, Mich, and replaces Ray Marchionoi. 

Though Achler comes to IPFW from Ferris 
State, his most distinguished work was accom- 
plished while serving as chairperson of the 
department of music al Otlerbein College in 
Wcsterville, Ohio from 1975 until 2000. 

While al Otterbein, Achter oversaw a music 
department thai provided 140 majors instruct- 
ed by 40 full- and parl-lime faculty members 
funded W an annual operating budget of 
roughly Sl.l million. During his tenure at 
Otterbein, the instilullon saw Ihe number of 
student majors increase to a figure that more 
than doubled prior numbers. The department's 
full-time faculty was increased and so was the 



constructed and then occupied by Achter's 

Achler, who earned his Ph.D. in Musicology 
■om the University of Michigan in 1972. 



brings a number of other accomplishments to 
IPFW. 

Melissa Reinhardl joins Ihe IPFW faculty, 
intending to earn her Masters degree from the 
University of St, Francis in December, 
Reinhardl fills the position once held by Trina 
Boedoker and has started Instructing IPFW stu- 
dents this semester. Included in her share of 
the department's curriculum are the courses 
Psychology of Music and Musical Therapy 
Pracllcum. 

Another facet of her duties will Include 
directing the IPFW Musical Therapy Clinic. Al 
Ihis clinic the practicum students will gel Iheir 
education in musical therapy largely by work- 
ing hands on with both adull and cnila clients 
who have disabilities. Reinhardl spoke in sup- 
port of music therapy, as did department sec- 
ilcf Arbauph, citing a case example 



of obse 



lund and 



-a chifd 
making a lot of noises become 
was with his instructor and clin- 



Reinhardt has attended the University of St. 
Francis since 1996 and upon graduation will 
hold a Master of Science in Education degree in 
Special Education. 

Robert Allen Saunders comes from 



Bloominglon's Indiana University, where he 
was an associate instructor ol voice. He also 
taughl eleven private students and a voice 
class with both majors and non-majors from 
1995 to 2000. Saunders replaces Rebecca 
M cCo nna u gh e y. 

Arbaueh said ol Saunders, "He's very excit- 
ed to be here. ..and Ihe students can feel that." 
Saunders leaches Song Literature and English 
Diction [or Singers. 

Saunders has performance experience dat- 
ing back to 1994 at Ihe Indiana University 
Opera Thcalie. While at the theatre, Saunders 
played such roles as Doctor Bartolo In 
Rossini's "The Barber ol Seville," Doctor 
Bartolo in "The Marriage of Figaro" by Mozart, 
and most recently Sparafucile in Verdi's 
"Rigolclto." 

This baritone's objective is to "teach voice 
and related subjects at the collegiate level, 
while pursuing an active life as a performer." 
Saunders has helped lo continue this active life 
by appearing in Mozart's "Requiem" In S(. 
Petersburg. Moscow and Novgorod. 

Jong-Won Park adds to the music dcpaiL- 
ment as he comes from Yon-Sci University in 
Seoul. Korea where he was Ihe director of 

See Music, p. 8 



Photography students 
able to rent cameras 



By MUhanna Wood. Chief Reporter 

For Ihe first lime ever, students enrolled in 
photography courses ace renting Nikon FM 10 
cameras for S25 per semester from Indiana- 
Purdue Student Government Association 
(IPSGA). The availability of Ihis equipment 
enables students to avoid purchasing or borrow- 
ing a camera. 



Shutter speed is the length of time the film is 
exposed to light. The aperture, said Papozian. has 
a diaphragm or lens opening that controls vari- 
ous aspects of images. For example, the smaller 
Ihe opening. Ihe more in-depth the image -"" ■— 
"Sometimes you want a lot or a little of ar 
m focus lo bring attention to your subjet 







Papazii 
Wad 



1, this w 



ethem 



nitialir 



and they can use quality equipment. Thi 
something student government is doing to fi^ 
make life easier and less costly for «'■- - '^^ 
dents on campus." said Rob Loper. 
president of IPSGA. 

"The cost of a used camera can 
from S175 to S225." said Richard 
Papazian. photography coordinator of 
the visual arts deparlmt"" 
'Photography students spend appi 
malely $100 to 5)50 on supplies pi 
semester, which is not a big deal for 
art student. However, it can be a 1 
for those who come from outside thi 

■Why .should students spend 5300 on a and ir 
camera when they've alceacly spent 5300 on the pi 
the class? I'm very glad this program has stay • 



... ■ being," said IPSGA Senati 

Wade, who has been working on the rental 
program since the beginning of the year. 
Wade said he wrote the senate bill for S3.000. 
Papazian, who advised IPSGA on what 
type of camera to purchase, said the FM 10 
is a very basic, manual camera, suitable for 
several photography courses such as 
Photography 243, 343, 344. 433. 444 and 



Joi 



lalis 



210. Everything 



fade and Papazian are currently investigating 
prices for digital cameras and formal cameras 
that could possibly be rented out nent semester. 
They are considering one S900 camera and three 
.,^_, 5300 cameras that would be pur- 
^ chased with student gov- 

-1 talked to Jan 
about getting digi- 
tal cameras because 
even though we 
leach computer art. 
we don't have digi- 
leras in this 
department for stu- 

rnts must purchase their own dig- 

ras for work on campus. This wfll 

more waj'S for students to capture 

I an image and will also open up 

ibility for photography classes to 

rent. We need to leach digital 

and we have no way of leaching 

." said Papazian. 

to introduce a bill addressing 

udeni government. According 

one has talked about digital 

Cameras can be rented from the student 
government office on Ihe second floor of 
Walb Student Union in Suite 225 or by call- 
ing 4S1-6586. A hold will be placed on a stu- 
dent's account if a camera is not repaired 
or returned. At the lime of this interview. 
there were two cameras remaining for rent. 




iW"^ 



igery ai 

that right r 

Wade pi; 

this issue t 



Pholo by Deddy Jong. Photo Editor 

400 lb. Gorrilla 

"Art on Hand," an exhibit in the galleiy 
al SVPA, features student work, indud- 
mg this 400-poimd wooden gorilla, a 
student's project from (he Spring 
Semester. 



Page 2, The Communicator 



Opinions 



Letter to the editor 



TolheEdiior 

nfw,liidrnlallPnV, ioKigurcdlh.il \d 
pick up a copy of our rampus newspaper. and Itl 
- e say, I realiy wasnl m ifie mood lo bo smacktd 
(he /ace wllh Nalhan DicN's ignoranl and righr 
wing rheloric. We are all in college and 1 believe 
le Ihing ALL college slu dents should stnvc lot is 
ftcme o( divcrslly and open -mindcdn ess. The 
United Stales o( Amcinca is no longer a country run 
and dominated by rich, while, Prolcslanl, hetero- 
sexual males, and people like Nalhan need lo 
learn, accepi and deal with thai. Okay, time to pick 
1 pari his "cdilorial." 

"IPFW can either travel down Ihc road as Ihc 
entire country now Ihinks of il, as an eitremcly 
pro-gay campus or a university known for its stu- 
dent involvcmcnl and activities..." Whal do the 
have lo do wiLh one another? If IPFW is 
labeled as a "gay" campus just because of the play 
Corpus Chnsli," that's the media's (aull, quite 
frankly. We can still be known as a school wiih 
plenty of student pride and have a very liberal and 
open-minded campus. 

Nalhan also remarks on having a friend who 
fomxerly atlendcd IPFW bein^ mocked by his 
friends.... hmm Well, (or one thing, il sounds like 
the typical ribbing thai you gel between guys, and 
lollc frankly, that's nothing lo gel horribly upsel 
bout. 

Nalhan then goes on lo mention that his pride 
n his school was hurt (or producing a play such as 
"Corpus Chrlsli," blahblahblahblah. God 'forbid 
ome different or conlroversial viewpoints are 
xpreascd. I personally sec nothi 
|slale inslilulion supporting 



e«pressian. If a play such as "Corpus Chnsli," thai 
may oifend some people, cannot be supported by 
I his university, then NONE can. In Ihis country, we; 
must (loleralel even Ihe thoughts we abhor the^ 

Onto other remarks. Nathan claims that hcQ 
will never proclaim his senualily in apubL'c forum, 5 
and of course turns thai into a liltle joke which real- 
ly isn't all that funny. But his point is totally moot. 

EVERYBODY eapre&amp;ses their sexuality in a 
public forum, one way or another. If I walk down 
the strcci with my girlfriend and I'm holding her 
hand, thals eipressing my sc«ualily. If I give her a 
hug. kiss or smack her on Ihe bull in public, lhat's|&gt;j 
expressing my sexuality. I'm quite certain MANY (II 
helDrDsexual couples have done thai in public and i^l 



a gay. 



1 personally h 
;r in IPFW. I've 



have no pnde one way or the 
olher in IPFW. (ve been here lor three days. In all 
honesty. I'm here lo gel my degree so I can gel j 
good |ob, and take care of my future wife and 
whatever family we have. Nalhan remarks that wc 
shouldn't go to school simply for Ihc education, 
thai we should go for the relationships or mcmo- 
nes. Quile frankly, if his attitudes are typical of 
IPFW sludenls and of other computer science stu- 
dents (I'm also a CS major). I'd really rather not, 
form loo many relationships here, How-ever, I'm 
hopine that his altitude is the ciception and nol 








Approaching the wall of racism: 

philosophical and poetic approaches 



Heidi Saliba. editor 

^lEdilor's note: Viis is tlie final section of a 10-part 
'mseries in which Saliba ttescribcs her experiences 
muiUh nteisiji, growing up in the rural souili. It is the 
Meopatone lo previous writings in which she 
Mdeseribes those things she witnessed and wluit was 
Mltamedfrom them.) 

I I do not like for myyoung daughter lobe 
laround people who speak wilh contempt. Just 
■ like I learned from elemenlary school, special- 
lizcd hale is rarely that. More often than not. it 
is infesled within the depths of subconscious- 
ness, and sprouts up inadverlently In the vari- 
lous areas of one's life like weeds in a garden 
Ihal choke out the (lowers. 

Approaching the wall of racism and hale 

is a natural by-product o( having had a small 

' ' To fully appreciate the profundity 

ice. one must at least try lo observe it 

vho've been covered, most of their 

' lives, by Ihe blankets of shame and rc|ection. 

We must uncloak the hidden philosophies that 

slill linger deep in our mindsets, by chipping 

away al seU-centeredness, assumption and 

pride Becoming educated is one way, but it is 

nol enough. 



Specifically, v 



1 1 should be our agenda to confront 

n. so Ihal in our approach we can begin 
Iding up steam and finally face racism head 
honine in on the fault lines within its cr~ 
rock lis very foundalli 
1 must be proactive in our ci 
_. ._. for equality and freedom, and be si 
that we mean it when plcdgingallcgiance... for 
liberty and [uslicc for all.We should run with 
integrity from Ihc "Iranquilizing drugs of 
gradualism" (Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.) 
and sprint on towards Ihe mark of Ihe hig' ~~ 
calling of our Lord. Jesus Christ CThe Bible) 

Breaking away from the wall, as a brick 
among bricks, requires great effort and inter- 
personal stamina. Every person alive has the 
right to be heard, understood and considered, 
and it is our duly to speak up for those rights. 
Wc must use them lor good, and for Ihe prolif- 
eration of peace. 

Our responsible voices, which foretell Ihe 
future, are o( Ihc highest necessity in demo- 
cratic debate. The evolution of thought and 
validation of action are inherent rewards to 
productivity's stewards. They also are in 
ents for rebuildinga nation. 



Morality defined 



What IS right and what is wrong? 
Who defines morality for you? Who 
dclines morality foUhe rest of us? 

For each individual, morality 
•hould be a very personal decision. 
WhethL-r one's morals consist of a 
whatever feels good, do it" philosophy 
□r il one wishes lo hold to the siriciesi 
□f morals, a person should never lei 
anyone bring down his morals. Never 
compromise moral standards (or 
anyone. Compromising your morals 
Ls a sign of weakness. 

A person's morals come (rom the 

r morals, r 



e look to our president as 

.1 leader of these United Slates. Just 

ve had a moral leader who. il seemed. 

acked any sense of morals, America watches 



From the 
Right 



Nathan DIehl, 
Managing Editor 




have no morals all ihe time. People watch youl 
(or coiuislency, and if you lack consistency,^ 
you also lack credibililv. Stand up for what youB 
believe in an unwavering (ashion and you willU 
gain respect, whether people respect you'H 



as the pn-sident "did nol have sexual relations opinion or nol. If you don't know something, 
wilh thai woman" and "didn't inhale." Great admit you don't know il-thal is a sign of a^ 



I. He holds his head ^ack to the 



truly great person. 

Whose delmition of right or wrong do 
idvocale. you may ask. Good que 



high. He does nol cbil . 

"■"inking problem." but ir\stead is honest. We 
.ve watched the past week as the man clears 
It paths on his rojich, just lo make his wife 



3,: 



question, really. For a. 



ijeing our country's moral leader 

Is il right to tell lies? How about telling 

lies while under oath? I don't think anyone can 

honestly say il is right lo tell a lie. By Ihe way, subvert 
in case some clarification is needed. " "" '" ' 



the law defines right and wrong and it is 

anyone to try lo reinterpret it or t( 

own desires. For instance, partial birth 

]n (abortion from six months up until 

before birth) Is. by every deiinilion of 

■nurdci and is therefore wrong. Any 

argument otherwise is based on wioria\ess. 

All in all. cling to whal is right, (lee from 

Spending time around thins that 



ir mind will only weaken oi 



morals. Hold your morals sirongly-don't ci 
mything that is not ItW percent promise anything. Be who you are-that's how 

laclual A fib is lie. A white lie is a lie. It all c^d made you. so don't let anyone ■ — 

" ■ .s than truth and therefore is a lie, lou oiherv.-^- 



Editorial Board Contact Us! 



Editorial Policy 



ig Editor 



Htidl Saliba, £^iior 
Nathan DIchLA'tinai 
Tudd Kamm, Ne&gt;i-t Edilar 
Diwn Early, Feaiura Edilor 
Jon TedciX Sports Editor 
Mlihanna Wood, ChitfRipcntr 
DeoDlci Zhlc. Fhoio Edilor 
Kxthy Dclagmage, Copy Editor 
EU&gt; Slutzmon. /1i/&gt;ri7Uui$ Manager 
Dorle RejTiokts. Publuhtr 



Mail: The Communicalot, Suite 315. 
Walb Sludcnl Union. 2101 E. Coliseum 
Blvd.. Fon Wayne, IN 46805 

E-mait: siupapcr@holmci-iprw.edu 
Telephone: 

Editor 4B 1-65 W 
PublufKr4Sl-b585 
Advertising: 481-6S33 



Unsigned editorials are ihc opinions ofThe Com munii 
They do nol necessarily reflect ihe views of IPFW. its employees 
or it. sludeni body, A column it solely the opinion of its author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from its readers. 
Lellcrs to the Editor and guest columns must be signed, dated and 
accompanied by a cuntni. valid address. 

All submissions nude via e-mail will be verilied by phone or 
in person. Submissions via mail or e-mail wiiJhhii this infonnauon 
will nol be published, eicepl under eilraordinaiy ciiciurutances. 
Class tianding or uile is also rcquesud. Addresses and (^ne num- 



II never be published. 

Submissions must be lypewrinen, double-spaced and no more 
than 300 words. It is pcefened thai submissions be sent lo the email 
address listed to the left ("Conuici Usl"). Submissions for a week's 
issue must be received prior lo 6:00 a.m. Monday pnor lo ihe pnni 
date for timely consideration. 

The idilofiil board of The Communicator reserves the nghl lo 
edit all Hibmissions for length, grammar. nyle and clarity, tcaas 
deemed libelous by The Communicatot'i editooal board will ncn 
tie published under any circunutaKcs. 



Highlights 



What's up this week 

Wednesday, Aug. 29 

Extreme Air (SAB), Grassy Knoll or Walb Ballroom, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 

Anthropology Club meeting, KT G50, noon-1 p.m. 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer meeting, NF 257, noon-12:30 p.m. 

Pagan Student Alliance meeting, NF 385, 7:30-10 p.m. 

Delta Gamma workshop, WU G21, 7-9 p.m. 

Pagan Student Alliance Bake Sale, Kettlcr ground level, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 

Thursday, Aug. 30 

Delta Sigma Pi, Kettler ground level, table #6, 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Recruitment 

Campus Ministry Bible Study, WU 114, noon-1 p.m. 

Delta Gamma workshop, WU G21, 7-9 p.m. 

Phi Kappa Theta Music, outside Walb Union, 9 a.m.-noon 

Pagan Student Alliance Bake Sale, Kettler ground level, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 

Friday, Aug. 31 

InlerVarsity Christian Fellowship group meeting, WU G21, 6-11 p.m, 

Delia Gamma workshop, WU 110, 7-9 p.m. 

Sunday, Sept. 2 

Phi Kappa Theta Meehng, WU 110, 6-10 p.m. 

Monday, Sept. 3 

Delta Sigma Pi, Kettler ground level, table fl6. 8 a.m.-6 p.m. RecruitmenI 

Campus Minish-y Bible Study, WU 110, noon-1 p.m. 

Tuesday, Sept. 4 

Campus Ministry Board meeting, WU 114-116, 6-7:30 p.m. 

Greek BBQ, Walb mall, 11:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m. 

Phi Kappa Theta Music, outside Walb, 9 a.m.- noon 

Wednesday, Sept. 5 

Delta Sigma Pi, Kettler ground level, table #6, 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Recruitment 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer meeting, NF 257, noon-12:30 p.m. 

Pagan Student Alliance meeting, NF 385, 7:30-10 p.m. 



Information courtesy of The Office of Student Life, from their webpage: 
www.ipfw.edu/stulife/calendars/e vents/A ug_eve.htm and 
www.ipfw.edu/stulife/calendars/events/Sep _eve.htm 



Highlights Page PoHcy 



Student Success Stories: 



The Highlights Page is a bndgo belwten 
Opinions and Fealuras, as ils regular columns are 
apinionaled features articli^s on people and 
dcfjarlmenls al IPFW. The Excellcnl Educalors 
Series and Sludenl Success Slories are inlended ro 
highlighl people who have made significanl 
accomplishmenls. 

Highlights articles should be considered 
cxposilions, rather Itian investigations. Sludenls 
are welcome to send in remarks aboul teachers 
(or the Excellent Educators Series. Shidents, fac- 



ulty and administrators are welcome to select stu- 
dents for the Student Success Stories column. 
Croups and organizations may send their accom- 
plishments and upcoming events for considera- 
tion for publication, although no guarantees are 
implied or expressed that submissions will be 
published or pursued. 

Any submissions, inquiries, requests or 
questions about this or any page of The 
Communicator are welcome and invited. Please 
send your remarks to nathandiehl@hoImail.com 



■^^^ 



VvOUR AD COULD 
BE HERE 



(fiyan MidcfCeton, 
successfuf stucfent of music 




fcgk,! 



Middk'ton Iranslerreil to 
iiana Univi-isily. 
immgton and becami; an 
major, where he again 
sinjj^icd in his cljAses and w.-ij 
forced to li'ave. Following an 
exhausting search for wlio he 
really was and (vhai he re.illv 
wanted to do, Middlcton decid- 
ed Id transfer back to IPHV 
with the hope of Hndin^ some~ 
thing ttiat could draw him in: 

While speakinc with an 
academic advisor. Kliddk'lon 
was asked what he lovi'd 
doing. Music was hLi emphati 



- Onci 



^clcd 



Faced with a father who 
loved music. Ryan Mid die ton 
was listening to 'music while 
vet in the womb. He used to 
Keep the beat in his,high chair 
ivhen he was a toddler. 
Growing up, his father taught 
him to truly love the music of 
the '70s and 'flOs. His older 
brother broadened his horizons 
when he began to rebel, liking 
anything that wasn't i:oi\sid- 
ercd cool, such as music from 
the '-lOs, '50s and '60s. 

It seemed .is though 



Middleton was destined lor a 
career in music. Following a 
successful high school cross 
country career, he came to 
IPFW and joined the ranks of 
the IPFW cross country team, 
running for Coach Robert 
Walerson (or one year. As an 
education maior his first year, 
Ryan suffered through a poor 
academic career, compiling a 
GPA of just 1 .75, placing him on 
academic prolJation and no 
longer allowing him to com- 
pete in his beloved cr 



toward the music program, 
Middleton was at First reliic- 
lant, but soon began to greatly 
enjoy the idea of making music. 

Alter finding his niche. 
Middleton began to eicel In his 
classes, raising his semester 
GPA to a 3.4. Music wilh ,m 
Outside Field, in his ca!e engi- 
neering, seemed to be a perfect 
fit (or this voung man \vh(&gt; hld:- 
tieen raised to have an appicd-:- 
ation (or all types of music. :^ 

Middle ton's eyes are now;;; 
set on becoming a music prqi^ 
ducer, intent on pursuing aM 
career that has its roots in hljS 
early childhood. "1 look fti^ 
warn to working with a neft^ 
band Id make them sound llkc^ 
they have been around for leh 



PLEASE RECYCLE 
THIS NEWSPAPER. 

Blue bins are located In every building. 



Are you interested in helping 
with re- construction of 
The Communicator? 

Currently we are updating our 

editorial practices and are 
seeking input from our readers. 

Please join us Friday, August 
31st @ 2 p.m. in Walb 215 to 

share your comments, 
critiques, suggestions, and 
opinions regarding the appear- 
ance and content of 
this publication. 

Please call or leave a voicemail at: 

481-6584 to let lis know 

you plan to attend. 

-Heidi Saliba, Editor 



Features 



Curtain Call 




By 

Bmndon 

Schwarze 



Tuna time in West Central 



Vcleran Arena Dinner Thealre Ihespians 
Nick Furjak and Brad Bcauchjmp, along wilh 
newcomei diroclor Sti.-ve Pearson wenl full- 
steam ahead when they made quick&lt;hangc afler 
quick change in Ihc Wcsl Ccnltal neighborhood 
Iheatrc's season opener "Grcaler Tuna," 

Jaslon Williams, Joe Sears and Ed Howard 
authored the show called "Greater Tuna," which 
is sel in the fictilious Tenan lown of 'I\ina. The 
show follows the lives of Iwcnly dillctctit eccen- 
tric lownspcoplc. The inlctcsling part about the 
twenty dillercnt characters Is Ihat Ihcy were por- 
trayed by the same two odors. During the show, 
the audience saw a day in the lives of Texans for- 
saken by some son of almighty deity, left to live 
in Tuna. 

Tlina is the kind of town in which people 
like Bertha Bumiller, who has certain dysfunc- 
tional tendencies, tries lo keep the rest of her 
troubled family in some sort of line, When 
daughter Charlene fails to make cheerleader for 
the seventh year in a row, Bumiller tries to con- 
vince her child (now emotionally distressed) that 
there is more lo life than cheerleading. She fails 
miserably, but Ihc audience sees her compassion- 
ale side and gets a ruce laugh in the process. 

Audience members were also allowed lo 
view other characters in the show via Radio 
OKKK's broadcast studio where the daytime DJs 
did nol remember lo turn on the power switch 
befoie Ihey started broadcasting. 

Bcauchamp made his return, having just 
won the award for bcsl supporting actor in a 
musical lor his work with last season's "Anything 
Goes." Bcauchamp was paired wilh fclloiv veter- 
an Furiak, ivho himself can claim an atvard for 
being the best aclor in a minor role, Furiak is also 
from Arena Dinner Theatre, 



Pearson directed the 
Iwo actors. "Greater 
■Ulna" is nol one of the 
beller-known shows 
performed at the Arena, 
which is now in its sinth 



. At f 



leado 
the 



, the 



litle 1 



show 



o believe that 



formed ^n far oil- 
Broad wa)', that it ivas 
under Broadway, 

However, Pearson said, 
"There an; usually peo- 
ple at each lable 
who've heard of it." 

Director Pearson, 
who leaches drama at 
Carroll High School, 
spoke of directing 

Beauchamp and Furiak " — 

in a positive light. 

"Rehearsals were completed without a lot of 
messing araurid. When the three of us got togeth- 
er we just had fun." Pearson said. 

It was aniazing how quickly the show kept 
movir\g, considering Bcauchamp changed cos- 
tume 16 limes in the first act alone. Furiak con- 
tinued lo hold the audience's attention while his 
partner in crime was quick-changm'g offstage, 
Beauchamp returned the favor in the second act 
while Furiak made a comparable 12 changes. 

Arena Executive Director Darrell Moruoe 
helped lo facilitate the eoslimie change by scr\-- 
ing as a back-stage dresser. Monroe brought more 
than 20 years of backstage experience to the task. 



The audience laughed 
because the show was an 
entertaining comedy 
zuhose objective was not 
to sei-ve as a social com- 
mentary, but rather to 
simply provide the audi- 
ence's symptoms of 
stress with the best medi- 
cine there is: laughter. 



Even the slighlesl delay back stage could have 
caused a deadly lull in the show. 

Of note: Bcauchamp played an eccentric 
Peley Fisk, who is the head muckely-muck of the 
Tuna Humane Society, Fisk crusades lo protect all 
of the animals of Tuna, including the dozen dogs, 
uncoimted cats and the snake he calls pets. One 
of Fisk's biggest challenges is that of Pearl Burras, 
played by Furiak. who for fear of harm lo her 
chicken eggs, poisons local dogs with strychrune. 

At the same lime Fisk is ivriting her a letter 
diagnosing her with some sort of a psychological 
disorder causing her need for the elimination of 
canines, Burras accidentally poisons a prize-win- 
ning bird dog belonging lo her husband Hank, To 
cover up the fact that she killed her husband's 
dog she calls young Stanley Bumiller, just out of 
reform school, lo drive over the dog and fake the 
cause of death. 

In this scene. Furiak played a delightful little 
old lady simply trying to navigate her walker 
around the barnyard, feeding her beloved chick- 
eruand protecting them from a poodle before she 
accidentally kills a S2,000 bird dog. 

When Furiak played Radio OKKK's station 
manager, Leonard Childers. southern-genlry 
style, he was so loud that the character was 
destroyed as a means lo create laughter It was 
almost as though Furiak was making up for a bad 
accent by just being too loud for the relatively 
small house that Arena provides. This thought 
was confirmed as many were overheard express- 
mg the sentiment after the curlain fell and bows 

As a whole, the people who showed up 
laughed a good deal while watching the culmi- 
nation of more than a month of four-hour 
rehearsals and slrained voices. The audience 
laughed because Ihe 



ing comedy whose 
objective was nol to 
serve as a social com- 
mentary, but rather lo 
simply provide the 
audience's symptoms 
of stress with the best 
medicine there is: 
laughter. 



"Ore 



Tun; 



Thea 






duclions IS available by 
calling (219) 493-1381, 
Tickets cost S25. which 
includes dinner. A cash 
bar opens at 6:30 p,m., 
wilh dinner starting at 
7;15 p,m, TTie curlain 
rises at 8 pjn. For those not interested in dinner, 
tickets for Ihe show can be purchased for SI5. 
Dinner, however, is half Ihe fun. 



Contributions 
lo the Features Page 

and any part 

of The Communicator 

are always welcome. 

Send submissions to 

stupaper@holmes. iphv. edu 



NEXT WEEK IN FEATURES: 

•CURTAIN CALL 
•IMPACT ART 

• RAPE AGGRESSION &amp; 
DEFENSE (RAD) 

CLASSES BEGIN IN SEPTEMBER. 

THE CLASSES ARE FREE TO 
FEMALE IPFW STUDENTS, FAC- 
ULTY AND STAFF. 




Student seats are available to serve 

on The Board of Directors of 

The Communicator. 

If interested, please call 4S1-6585 

for information regarding 

membership on the board. 



Student Body President Busch 
aims to unite campus 



By Dawn Early. Features Editor 

The new Student Body President, Justin T. 
Busch, wants our commuter campus to provide 
of a traditional campus environment. He 
thinks many sludenls, including himself, want to 
be part of a more unified campus. This is his goal 
for the upcoming j-car. 

Busch says that allhou^ we have a "uiuquc 
3US," we have ihe opportunity to create more 
school spirit and togetherness as a campus com- 
ity. He says that many students simply come 
is5 then go home. He acknowledges that this 
trend will be hard to break, but hopes the Student 
Activities Board will contribute lo the change. He 
also said that the addition of dorms in 2003 will 
help tremendously 

One way Busch plarxs to accompleih his goal 
IS to have his office work more closely with Brian 
Miller (vice president of programmingj and SAB 
in bringingncwevcnislocampus. He hopes more 
new events will increase student participation. 

"I would like to see SAB and Student 
Government work closely this year, more than we 
have in the pasl." Bu^b said. He notes that he 
will be present at all of SAB's events this year, 

Busch served as a studeni senator last year, 
and after working closely with Nick Gray, former 
student body president, decided Ihe job was 
something he would like to lake over, 

Busch was elected under the controversial 
"Beer Ticket," 

Bu.sch says the The Beer Ticket" was "pun?- 
ly just a marketing thing." He says that although 
some ]&gt;coplc did see it in a negative light, il 
worked overall. He reasoned that il is difficult lo 
gel elected solely on one's stance on issues on our 
commuter campus. Also, Basch describes his and 
Miller's personalities as "light hearted," and says 
they wanted to bring this aspect lo their cam- 
paign. 

Busch says he's always had an interest in pol- 
itics. Even though it is work, he says he has fun 
when he is working and doing things for Ihe stu- 
dents. "1 Uope Ihat will be reflected in aclivitics 
wc bring to campus." Busch said. 

Although bringing activities lo campus and 
bringing the students together is one of Busch's 
goals, he also says that they w'ill have an opportu- 
nity to do more things with the budget they have 
been given. For enample. Busch is eager to help 
campus organi^,alions in need ol additional fund- 



ing lor activities or eients that *vill benefit the stu- 
dents. If a legllimale plants presented. Ihe student 
sciute con vote lo approve e\lra funds. 

One way Studcnl Covcmment has used the 
budget is by purcha.-^ing several TI-S3 calculalon, 
available for students lo rent for SIO per semester 
in Walb Union Room 225, This saves students 
from purchasing an expensive calcub tor that may 
be needed for only one class. (Alt the calculator 
lor Ihis semester have been rented oul.) 

Aboii-e all. Busch says his job is to do what is 
best for Ihestudcnts. Currently, there is a program 
where students receive discounts at certain 
restaurants and stores when they present their 
sludcnt identification card. Places such as 
Wendy's. Domino's Piir.za, Cheddar's, Grease 
Monkey and Kay Jeivelers currently offer percent- 
ages off purchases, Pearlc Vision in The 
Glenbrook Mall are Ihe most recent additions to 
the program, Busch says they are ivorking to 
improve this program, 

Busch admits his job is an immense responsi- 
bility, however, he also feels it provides valuable 
experience. He attends regular meetings with 
admir\istralion members and says IPRV's shidenl 
govenunent parallels our national government. 
Rob Loper. student body vice presidcnl, serves as 
president of the student senate, Busch oversees 
Ihe senate's decisions and has the power to veto if 
he does not feel a decision will aid students. The 
same applies lo SAB: he makes ceriain that activi- 
ties brought lo campus will benefit the students. 

Busch also has the poiver lo appoint students 
lo various committees. This is an area where 
Busch encourages students to gel involved, espe- 
cially if they have a specific interest or concern. 
He appoints students to many committees, 
including the Campus Traffic Appeals "Board, The 
Substance Abuse Control Committee and an 
Affirmative Action Committee, He says that stu- 
dents are often unaware of Ihe many ways to 
voice their opinions, 11 sludenls feel Ihat they are 
not being represented well, they can join a com- 
mitlcc and help to make changes, 

Busch adds that his door is always open, "I 
encourage people to stop by or call if you have a 
concern or idea that would help the studcnl 
body" He urges sludenls lo step forward because, 
"that's what we're here for," 

Busch's office is located in Walb 225B, He can 
ako be reached by phone at -IRt-ft^aa or by e-mail 
at sluptes©holmes,iplwedu 



(comcast 



^.^095 ner monm 



for$995 per 



(includes enulpmenO 
and 




DSU 640k modEjn" 
, Always »&gt;^ No «.i1in9" 1-9 "■ 
No busy sigi^ls 

■ f„r n second phoW line 
, Quit paying fo'^^^"'^ 

,7CTvonoo'»»»«"*"'''u 
10WBofWebSpoci&gt;««'' 

o&lt;loy,7-d&lt;i,so«"l&gt; 



456-9000 



■iA 




Features 



Chris 
Sutton 





ared in Ihe Buddhisl and Taoisl traditions in which 
the intuitive and inlrospcctive concepts of self are united wilh 
the whole of ctcalion withm the universe," Shim said. "My con- 
cept of the Western wottd of analytical and objeclive Ihintim: 
contrasts with my cullural herilagc." she continued. 

Shim explained how Ihe contrast affects her artwoit li 
my recent painting, I have attempted to combine my awaifni. 
of my cultural hpfilage with Ihal of contemporary Western puf 



;eived het BFA with a concentration in painling 

s University in Seoul, Korea in 1991. SI _ 
I 1999 from Wayne Stale University in 



m^ 



id Mce K)Tjng Shin 
Illy on display a1 the For! Wayne Museum of Arl. 

Klcment'sworkwasdisplayed in the main gallery area. Hei 

exhibit was titled: 'Cup, Boat, 8ov^!." These Ihire objects appear ''^c Duksung Womi 
regularly in her work. received her MFA ii 

KIcmenl's family fled Germany in 1938 under the persecu- Michigan. 
of Hiller. Her family seltled in America, but KlemenI found L^l year. Shim donated a painting lo the MidwesI AIDS Having recently relocated to Fort Wayne, Shin 

herself trapped between the German and American English Ian- Prevention Project, Artworks for Life, in Femdale, Mich. figurative and mysterious painlings explore h 

"lages. "Art was a place Ihal I could make that ivas my own," own idenfily, as well as ideas of Korean phiJO' 

emcnt told FWMA's show curator Patricia Watkinson. "il was phv. 

world that I was in charge of," Klcmenl said. 

Klement attended the Cooper Union School of Art and 



Air releases second album 



Band creates new style and sound 

By Dawn Early, Features EdiLor 



Last spring, Air released their second album 
enlilled ■'lO.OOO Hz. Legend." After listening lo the 
entire album one could conclude Ihal this band has 
Iheir oi^'n unique ser^e of style. The album's lyrics 
explore some deep philosophical issues, as well as 
touching on some rnore lightheartcd issues. The 
music is somewhat unprecedented and Ihey have 
successfully created their own genre of music. 

Jean-llcnoit Dunckcl and Nicolas Codin met 
while in college in Paris and created Ihe band in 
1995. They credit Ihe Beach Boys and The Bealles 
as being their gicalesl influences, yel Iheir sound 
is very iruiovalivc and seems to have emerged 
from Ihe '90s EiccLronica age. 

"10,000 Hz. Legend" follows their first album 
released in 1998, "Moon Safari." The band mem- 
bers say thai their new album came from a more 
mature band than Ihe first and that it has more of 
a paranoid, urban idge They ircdit this lo Ihe r 
sellling in Paris i\hile their lif^i album \\js 
iiKpiied mainit by the Versailles counirv-idt 



Air's music has been referred loas pop, tech- 
no, dl.sco and lounoe. However, it does not really 
lit into any one niche. This album incorporates a 
wide range of modem rnusical allribulcs. Dunckel 
and Codin arc responsible for composing the dis- 
tinct lyrics for Iheir new album. 

'Music is iusi about imagination. Whether 
you're irxspired oy science fiction or by Ihe seiual 
or by Ihe human, Ihe imporlant thing is lo have 
some i magma lion," God in said in an interview 
with UNCUT magazine in April 2000. 

The album begins with a slow, mellow lone. 
The sounds of modem technology and synthesiz- 
ers arc present from Ihe very beginning. The voic- 
es seem lo be compuler-gene rated or altered in Ihc 
first song and al the beginning of the second, how- 
ever, the band members prove their talents as 
vocalists before "How Does it Make You Feel?" 

Band mcmtiers spent time living in a bus 
while louring; Ihe counlrv inspirt^d Ihe fourth 
Ir^ck, The Va);abond. ' Il is said Ihis IrJtk por- 
ng the 




Ihey fell. 

After this slow begirming, the album becomes 
more upbeat, as Ihe songs use both fund clapping 
and 3 harmonica. 

A wide range of instruments are used 
throughout the album, mcluding the appearance 
of a harp in "Radian." Drums, pianos and flutes 
also frequent Ihe tracks. 

The eighth track on the album "People in the 
City." brmgs a sense of realism back lo the album. 
The repelilive song seems to parallel life. The line 
"moving watching working sleeping driving 
walking talking smiling," is repealed a lolal of 
eight times Ihrouchout the song and is done in a 
wav Ihal makes the listener think of his ov/n life 
and the sometimes redundant course il takes. 

Track rune lakes more of a provocative look at 
life as Air examines the pleasures of oral sci. This 
was the only track that was mildly profane. The 
details of Ihe song, particularly when Ihe vocalists 
describe their fantasies, could be viewed as some- 
what controversial. 

Listening lo this album served as somewhat 



of an cducalional experience. Usually when lislcn- ' 
ing lo music, I am drawn lo son^ wilh a good or' ' 

calchy beat. This album presented a very different 
beal, one laden with synlhesl/ers and sound 
effecis, When one is nol familiar wilh these : 
sounds, Ihcy seem somewhat surprising. Overall, I ,. 
thou^l the album explored some inleresling lop-', 
ics wilh its lyrics and succeeded in creating a.* 
unique genre of music, ' 




Photo scanned from promotional material sent by ASTRALWERKS 



Your ad could be 
here! 

Call Ella Stutzman, 

ad manager at 481- 

6583 for advertising 

rates and options 





Th« VMCA oJ Greater Ft. Wayne li loeblng *or 
energeUc part-time ttoff for the following poilUoni: 

• Day time and rental lifeguards 

• Weekend Fitness Team 

Mutt be team oriented, retponilble, excellent human 
relation ihllh and certified In appropriate areot. Thli 

lend reiume to: 

Central Branch 'YMCA 

Attn; Heidi Wegener 

1020 Barr St. • Ft. Wayne, IN 46802 


SERA TEC 

BIOLOGICALS 

is looking for a few bngfiL cheerful 

S customer service onenled peopia 

lor ful'pail-Iime empioj-ment 

• HidKal uperlEBCc hilpmi 
■ AMotPU 
-FoUofPut-tlm. 

• FlulUa Kludiilei 

PhlttKrtomlU II From D«k 

UlLVnihfalglsnBM. 
F&lt;inWi|Tia.H 



/IPFW' 



Campus 

Calendar 

for Aug. 30-Sept. 12, 2001 



August 

31 Career assessment group 
■ interpretation, KT 128, noon; for 
information, call 6600. 

September 

1 Wellness Center's "Buddies for 
Better Health" Fait Fitness 
Challenge; continues through 
Dec. 31. For information, call 66fl7 
ore-mail tillapau. 

3 Labor Day holiday, campus closed. 

Student Life Activities; for 
information, call 5609. 

5 Organizational Fair, WU mall, 
11 a.m.-l p.m.; also Sept. 6, 
4 b p.m. 

7 United Sex u a li ties -sponsored 

camping trip to Mongo, continues 
through Sept. 9. 

1 1 Advisors Round Table, WU G21, 
noon-1 p.m. 

5 Transitional Studies Open House, 
KT GZ1, 10-noon and 2-3 p.m.; also 
Sept. 6, 

6 Menopause Pathways presents "A 

Safe Path for a Natural Change: 
Midlife Issues Before, During, and 
After Menopause," Joseph L. 
Mayo. M.O., and Mary Ann Mayo, 
M.F.CC, WU Ballroom. 7-9 p.m. 
Health education and free 
screenings, 5-7 p.m. For 
information,' call 6105. 



7 Center for Women and Returning 
Adults' Pizza Party for students 
wilh families, WU Ballroom, 6- 
8 p.m.; for information, call ^I-IO. 

10 Visual Arts Exhibition: IPFW 
Asioctote Faculty Show, VA Gallery, 
weekdays, 7 a.m. -9 p.m.; 
weekends, 9 a.m. -6 p.m.; continues 
through Oct. 24. For information, 
call 6705, 

Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) 
classes, 4:30-6:30 p.m.; also 
Sept. 12, 17, 19, 24, and 26. 
Free for female IPFW employees and 
students: general public, S25. To 
register, call 6619. 

11 Omnibus Lecture Series: Rulon 
Gardner, Olympic wrestling gold 
medalist, "Overcoming Obstacles," 
WU Ballroom, 7 p.m. For 
information, call 6808. 

12 College-Level Examination 
Program (CLEP), KT 232B, 
8:30 a.m.; for information, call 
6600. 

Invitation to review the Strategic 
Plan Draft. VJ 146, noon- 
1:15 p.m.; also Sept. 20, 3- 
4:15 p.m. For information, call 
6795. 

Honors Program coffee break vnth 
program faculty, KT G35, 4:30- 
6 p.m. For information, call 6924. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Page 6The Communr 
ftockey underrated 



By Jon TedCT5, Sports Edr(or 

'" Yep, thjl's Ihc ritle. Hockey is 
undemted. Its no( flashv. il's nol 
long In fad, il took me all of three 
5«ond5 lo come up wilh il, bul lis 
(me. Hockey is one o( Ihe nio5l 




oul. The players are incredible 
jlhleies. who don't loleole much 
from anybody. They also do an 
ama/ing job handling Ihe puck 
with a slick while (and Ihis is Ihe 
kicker) on skalcs. II truly is an 
amazing game. 



LasI s 



1 I was at a Fort 
Wayne Komcls game aeainsl the 

Quad City Mallards, wTio, need- 
less lo say, are Ihc Komeli' rivals. 
Thai night just happened lo be 
"puck nighl" and me firs! few 
Ihousand faiU gol a free Komets 

Early in Ihc game Iherc were, 
well, lei's iusi say some "ques lion- 
able calls' made by referees w*iich 
Ihe (ans look esceplion lo. VVhen 
Ihe calls continued lo be poorly 
made, il suddenly started raining 
black pucks. No. I didn't throw 
mine, and personally, I Ihink il's 
classless, bul il was a prelty amaz- 
ing sight. Sure, if you go lo a base- 
ball game, they may throw beets 
and even in Philadelphia Ihcv 
have Ihrown balleries al (oolball 
players, bul theseare pucks. These 
objects could cause serious injury, 
yel the players never moved. Thev 
slaved right on the ice and waiiid 
10 be hil. They didnl care, thL\ 
just wanted the game to get sl.iri 
cd again. 

A hockey game, however, i.-. 
probably not Ihe place you w.inl 
lo lake children, a priesi or your 
mother. II is a great place to take 
your dad, fralcmily or soronly 
pais or a guy named Bob you met 
a( a Iruck stop. These fans havf 
mouths like sailors and nothing is 
sacred. They will lalk about youi 
mom, your dad, your girl, yout 
man, your uncle, your uncle's dog 
and your uncle's dog's puppies. 
They don't care. I have learned 
more nasty catch phrases thai 1 
.wouldn't repeal lo a drunk bar- 
tender in one game penod, than m 
my entire life. The (ans are inter- 
esting and somewhat amusing, if 



Sports 

Soccer Showcase 2001 

By Adam Spielh. Slaff Wnlcr 

Coach Teiry Slefankiewicz had high aspirations 
(or this season's IPFW women's soccer team. They may 
be a young team, bul Ihe taleni and dedicahon is defi- 
nitely there. Coining into Ihis year's Soccer Showcase, 
their only match against lUPUl was predicted to be 
very competitive and Slefankiewia's women didn l 
disappomi Ihe crowd. 

With a strong defense led by Stiacina Mersey and 
an eiciling offense led by Knslui MacOotuld. the Lady 
Dcms look over possession early. They conlrolled the 
midfield with clean passing and effective off-lhe-ball 
movcmcnl and light runs down Ihe flank enabled 
IPFW lo pui the pressure on early. MacDonald, with 
preal ball control, tegan the shooting on Ihe lUPUl nel. 

Midway Ihtough Ihe first half, both teams began 
to move at even sinde. playing a back and forth game 
with each learn splitting control of Ihe possession, 
IPFW's first real scoring opportunity ended up strikmg 
Ihc tefl goalpost near the end of Ihe first half. Bul the 
Lady Dons finally found Ihe back ol Ihc nel with 6:55 
remaining in Ihe first half. A defensive mistake by 
lUPUI, who failed lo dear Ihc ball, saw Ihe ball coming .... 

from the righl side, directly Lo ihe feet of MacDonald Fetar Hachaj 
who capitalized on the defensive blonder by clearJy 




Photo by Jon Teders. Sports Edi 



5 a nice s 



At the end of the half, IPI 
importanlly, the momeni 
Unforlunately. that 



;r-ielt cc 



I had a 



didn't 



into the second 'half. Only six minutes in, lUPUl ".f T^,' 
worked the ball up the field and crossed il from the f^^.'jf^^"; 
righl side into IPFW's penalty box. Tara Lalella buried 
it past IPFW goalkeeper Sarah Laib. Coach 
Stefankiewicz may have buried his head in his hands 
bul his defense continued lo play lough theicafler. 
Shacina Hetscy let very little gel through, nailing near- 
ly every ball in the air. 




IPnv still created opporhinitics offensively. Kalie 
Laage had an open nel, bul failed lo capitalize, shoot- 
ing Ihe ball wide. IPRV's real problems came midway 
through Ihe second half as they began lo tire and gave 
possession. lUPUI's midfield looked strong, led bv 
Lalella, who had great ball conlrol. creating excel- 
lent opporlurulies for Ihe team. II was only a mailer of 
lime before lUPUl found their second goal which came 
with five mmules remaining in the game. Alinng IPRV 
defense allowed a break-away lor lUPUl's Karrie 
Reising. IPFW's Laib began lo challenge, hesitated, and 
finished her challenge loo late. Reising dribbled the ball 
past her and sealed the game for 
lUPUI. 

Final score, a heart-breaking 2- 
1 loss. Unfoilunalely, Ihe Dons' 



few effective runs Ihroughout the 
game "1 Ihmk Ihe score rwlly didn't 
reflect hoiv we plaip-cd. There was no 
ijay it was a fiie-nil game," Lu\'a said. 
The score didn't retlecl goal- 
keeper Pclar Hachaj's perlormancc 
filhiT Hachj) made several great 
save?, hotvever. his ineipcnence ivilh 
Dl competition showed. 

The Dons picked up their 
game against Wtst Virginia on Sunday. 
horlheliist 15 mmules. Ihey conlrolled 
possession and ^ined some scoring 
opportunities- IPFW's problems came 
when Ihe substitutes arrived to pro- 
vide fresh legs and sunport. 
Untnriunalely, their contimiily tell 
.i[-.&gt;ri .ind the scoring for ^^tet Virginui 
K't-iri The Mountaineers scored al Ihc 
:'• "■'&lt;. ::7 I9and 11:49 minule marks in 
ih,iir^t half. All of the goals were off of 
IPFW defensive brcakdoww. 

The second hall satv the Dons 
(.uEUriAlling most of the remainder of the 
'f'- t;anu\ ri-sulling m IPRVs first Dl goal. 

With 2 43 left, GarrctI Buck scared olf a 
free kick just outside the penally box. Overall, Ihe Dons 
played strong fundamental games, but were out- 
matched by the strong (division 1 talent. 



e showed u 
ling them the game. 






alch- 



ssful. 



.11 be a lengthy and difficull 

occss, bul pTaymg high-calit&gt;er 

'ike Notre Dame and West 

ly help the program. 



1 gami 



; again 



'r&gt;' lalenlcd Notre Dame 
ic Irish scored early and con- 
oiled the match Iherealler, The 
outmatched and out' 
id simply did nol have 
experience lo compele 



possessed ai 



F'lofo by Jon Teders, Sports Editor 
ich Stefankiewicz gives the women some last minute 
'ice just moments before they take on lUPUI. 



ctlec lively. 

"A lew mislakes al this level 
vill cost you," said IPFW team cap- 
am Ian Luya. That's not lo say that 
PFW didn" ■— - 




Photo by Jon Teders, Sports Editor 
Coach Stefankiewicz leads the mens' soccer 
team against West Virginia. 






n lake it. 



Thai being said, I don't go lo 
the games lo hear nasty phrases or 
■- - ■ -■ I black puck ' 



to Ihe open man, who in 11 

1 goaf. 1 have lost five hats 






t Ihe goalie and 



because of hat Iricks, i have had 
the worst seal in the house, sal 
next to the visiting teams' fans, 
(who are the most annoying peo- 
ple in the world) and loved every 



Sports dictionary for dummies 



t.Four goals scored by i 



ne player 
e player i 



Keeper- Soccer term used for the player defendbig his goal. 

cr kick- Happens in socccr when Ihe ball is kicked oul 
bounds on either the east or west end of a soccer field. The ball is 
then placed inlhecomerof the field where Ihe team who did not 
kick the ball oul. kicks the ball inio the field of play 



The Student 
Recreation Center 



For Information call: 
481-6610 or 481-6614 





for Billiard 

^ , iinute (Simonis&gt;,&lt; 

Air Hockey and Video Ar&lt; 
University Services Card i 
Student's moy bring gues 



esters ■ 
bn-Fri 

_Bi - 9piTvj 

lb Student Uni^ 
ri-— "Ground Floor 

i6 Tennis and Darts 

,ii1e Sc per minute.) 

:oin operoted 

ed For table rental 



HEALTH 

and WELLNESS 

CLINIC 

WALB 234 



^1 SERVICES/TREATMENT PROVIDED FOR: | 


Colds 


PAP Exams 


Asthma 


Bronchitis 


Birth Control 


Diabetes 


Sinusitis 


STDs 


Orthopedic 


Sore Throats 


Depression 


Hypertension 


^ijgg Ear Probleins 


. Fatigue 


Flu Shots 


^fSHJ Headache^; 


Viral infections 


Allergy 


^^a uTis 


Bums 


Injections 


■ Lacerarions 


Acne 


Immuni/JlinriF: 



HOURS 

Monday-Tbursday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Friday 8 a.m. to Noon 



IPFW and Parkview Occupational Health- 
Partners in Healtti and Wellness 



/ IPFW ' 



PARKVIEW 
HEALTH SYSTEM 



August 29. 2001 



Sports 



Page 7 The Co 



Ten questions with... 

Student Body Vice President Brian Miller 



By Ion Ted en. Sports EiJilor 

JT Brian, how imporlani is it far crowd support at 
Ihc Dons' games/ 

BM: Well, I Ihirk CTOwd support u crucial, the num- 
ber one thing. Student mvolvement is getting belter 
and to make a successful event, we need fans to be 
here and without that we arc not going to have a 
successful event 

JT: Being Division I now. doyou think oi 

"ipelc with ' " ■ ' ■ " 

Jiigan Stall 
BM: As far as com- 
peting with those 

know if that's neces- 
sarily realistic. Wc 
are going to be very 
competitive in all ol 
□ur sports. I'm really 
looking forward to 
that and 1 think we 
wiU be able to hold 
on and be in most 
ball games. 

JT: Which sport do 
you enjoy aruiounc- 
uig the most? 
BM: I would say the 
sport I like announc- 
ing the most would 
be... I really like them 
all. Man, this is 
lough. I would go 
men's volleyball. 
Point Dons! 

JT: What docs thi 



the 



e do 



lagL. 




BM: Well, 1 think that it's something that ever^-body 
naxJs to try. Us not for everyone, but it is something 
that can tie for everyone. There are so many aspects 
and ways togel involved, and this is just one way to 

JT: Name one band you would pay an insane 



BM: Probably 

Backstreet Boys. 
BM: I've been to a 
Backstreet Boys 
concert, tielieve it 
or not. I took my 
little sister, sorry. 
JT; Hey that's a 

BM: But I'm going 
to 



Fan Stand: Soccer Showcase 

This week's question: Why did you come out and support the Dons 
this week? 

By Jon Tcders, Sports Editor 




-Tina 
Wilson 



Allemative Gwar 

JT: What's your 

favorite song lo 

sing karaoke? 

BM: A little 

"Copacabana." 

JT: A lillle Barry 

Manilow? 

BM: A little Barry 

Manilow. 



JT: What 



the 



-Amanda 
Schultz 



"Because 
I they're 

Phdo by Jon Teders. Sports Editor all mv 

Tina Wilson and LeAnn Marcoviak cnjov thcntselves at l„-i 
the showcase. ~ °^^^ 

-jfriend^ 
J and I 
glove 
'em." 



-Krista 
Hamilton 



IPFW Athlelii 

BM: Well. I think 

obvious what 

done. Being here. 

you can see all the 

sponsorships, Jerry Vcagly being 

It's phenomenal the kind of recognition iL o 

JT; As student body vice prraidcnt. what wc 
lell people lo gel them lo allend the sportin 
and support the Dons? 



Photo by Jon feders. Spods Edilor"'"V^'" °' "'"" 
you ve cnod when 

sports learn has 
lost? 



Voice of the Dons, Brian Miller, at the Soccer 
Showcase. 



upport from the community, the BM: Countless. Every I.U. basketball and Green Bay 
Vcagly being oul here with I.U. Packer loss, ovei'my lifetime. So probably 300. 




JT: Final quesli 
one silting. 
BM: MosI in or 



ovei'my lifelime. So probably 3( 
&gt;. MosI beers you've eve 
sitting, huh? Eighlecn. 



SPORTS WRITERS NEEDED 
PLEASE CALL JON: 481-6584 



Photo by Jon Teders. Sports Editor 
Captain Ian Luya gets ready for the game against West 
Virginia, 

Want +0 jee voor naivie ani face In 
+/ie t&gt;aper? Then cowe on oat an4 
lo^^ort fhe Doni« You eou(&lt;/ en^ o/&gt; 
on Fan Stair)&lt;f« 



fearless 
banking 



WELLS 
FAKGO 



The Next Stage' 



SiiVMVjii,^:"iT^i.-^,tWr,.mi.mdl/^*»- 



Now that you're ready to go it alone with banking, check out the convenient 

Student Combo'"" Package. It backs you up with a range of worry-free 

banking services that'are easy to use. Stop by your nearest 

Wells Fargo location today. 



Student Combo Package 

Free Student Checking 



ATM &amp; Check Card' 



Free Online Account Ace 



August 29. 2001 



Campus/Region 



Campus Wire STARS program debuts on campus 

AACP nresidPnt tn f.ne-ak ^VM-*— WoodChie.Repon^ ffTi'^!?-i!:'-'«^''f^'^«;S"'^ ..^Ls.O^em b.c.u.e .hey w.n, .o be .her.. They re.lly 



NAACP president to speak 
at Purdue University 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — (Purdue Universi.y 
News) Kweisi Mfume, presideni and CEO of .he 
National AMocia.ion for Ihe Advanccmcnl of 
Colored People will speak al Purdue on Thursday, 
Sep.. 6. 

Hi« address, 'fiace: E.pforing America'; 
Agerda.' will begin a. 7 p.m. in Fowler Hall. Thi 
lalic will be followed by a qucs- 
llon-and -answer seislon, 

Mfumc, whose IVcs. African 
name means 'conquering son of 
. kings,- has served as NAACP 
presiden. since 1996. His orgaru- 
M lion's ftve-poini action agenda 
addresses civil righis. polilical 
empowerment, educational 
excellence, economic develop- 
mcn. and youdi outreach. 

Before his election lo Ihe prcs- Mlumo 



Fowler Hall. The 

■ 



Tri-State joins MIAA 

. ANGOLA — {Trj-State News) Dr. Earl D. 
Brooks, II, Tris.alc Universi.y president, 
announced Aug- 23. Ihal TS¥ inlends lo join the 
Michigan Inlercollcgiale Athletic Associalion 
(MIAA), which is arritlalcd with Division III of the 
NCAA. 

Dr Caylcn J. By ker, president of Uie MIAA and 
presideni o( Calvin College, and Sheila K Wallace 
Kovalchik, commissioner of .he MIAA, a. tended 
Uu- event. 

"Il has been no secret that our decision to move 
.0 .he NCAA was based on our continuing efforts 
to. enhance Ihequality of the academic and athletic 
experiences ol our students," said Brooks, 

■|n preparing for the move to Uic NCAA, we 
have spcn. a lo. of time in studv and debate, con- 
sidering the type of conference that would provide 
the best philosophical and geographical fit for TH- 
Slate. The MIAA member schools are active partic- 
ipants In Division III of the NCAA and the confer- 
ence has a reputation for its emphasis on putting 
academics first and (or adhering to strict travel 

Sidelines is impressive,' Brooks continued. "I 
licve Tri-Slate has much to gain from .his transi- 
tion lo Uie MIAA and NCyW" 

Byker noted the troubling trend at major col- 
leges and universities of trying to mix professional 
athletics with academics. 

"I believe Ihe Division III level of the NCAA 
maintains a solid balance of athletics and academ- 
ics. In Ihe MIAA, we Like the sludcnt aspect of the 
student athlete" very seriously, believing firs, and 
foremost Uial character deuelopmeni and a ciualily 
educational cipcnence should be realized m Ihe 
fullest sense, Tri-Slate's academic and athletic pro- 
grams are impressive and we welcome them, their 
mission and philosophy, and we pledge our full 
support in helping with their Iransilion to the 

N(:aa.' 

lU sociology department 
honored for excellence 

BLOOMINCTON, Ind. — (lU News) The 
department of sociology a. Indiana Universily's 
Blcwminglon campus has been seleWed for the 
Distinguished Con.ributioiu lo Teaching Award by 
the American Sociological Association-an honor 
usually given lo individuals. 

The ASA rccogniicd the departtnen.. which was 
rtcen.ly rarxked eleventh in Ihe nation by VS. 
News £i World Report, (or its excellence in training 
graduate sludents to become teachers. 

The department has produced many quality 
graduates who have gone on to faculty positions al 
nrestigious universities and colleges Ihmughoul 
North America. 

The department will be officially honored al 
Ihe ASA annual national meeting in August. 

Robert V. Robinson, chair of the deparlmeni 
of sociology, said the program is unique 
because of it's approach lo developing graduate 
students into (acuity who excel al s\\ facets of 
leaching. 

. "I'm very pleased. Il's a rarity for a depart- 
ment to receive this award," Robinson said. 



By Mishanna Wood, Chief Reporter 

STARS, (Starling, Transferring le i?etunung 
Sludents fall onenlation), formerly known as 
ASTRO (Adult, Student, Transfer, Reentry, 
Orienta.ionI made lU appear- 
ance on campus this semester 
ASTRO, which was uilroduced 
in 1995, had always been 
geared toward non-lraditioiul 



STARS dTffers from SOAR (Student. 
Orientation. Advising. Registration), geared 

toward tradilional sludenls. in that il is one 
evening of workshops and 
- 1. wiihoul 



lone o 
wiihrc 



students. The name 


STARS is 










strati 




uitended to be mo 


•e mviiing .o traditional shj- 




tob 


n Ne 




, dire 




Center 






Ir 




.inH 


iiclur 


ning Adu 
n a.tenda 




The first session i 


as held from 3:30 to 8 p.m. on 


Ih 




were 100 n 


Z1 




Aug. 16, Ihe Thursday before Uie beginning of Uie 








ed 1 






semes Icr. SludenU 


are exposed lo a series of 




-Stu 


denis 


who 




i STARS a 


re there 



They n 

on campus thai they may not have hid 

before." said Newman. 

STARS is a free session open lo students, 
family and friends. Childcare is provided free 
of charge, as well. A few of the services provid- 
ed include a campus tour and information 
aboul events, student groups, academic 
resources and perspeclives on college life 
from students and faculty. The next session 
will be held in January on the Thursday 
before classes begin. For more information, 
call The Center for Women and Relu 
Adults at 481-4140. 



mlng 



Subterranean to move to new location 



By Andy Wcine. Staff Writer 



dowi 



next lo Broadripple Place, 

The new location offers four to five limes 
more floor space than Ihe previous store, with 
aboul 5,000 square fee. available, and 3,200 
square feet already partitioned for the selling 
floor. 

Store managers expect lo receive a larger 
clientele, being farther up norUi. said Adam 
Walker, Subterranean employee. Parking will be 
more accessible than the hard-to-find lols down- 
town, according lo Walker, 

"IPFW students make up a large portion of Ihe 
customers who come Into Subterranean and will 
benefit from its new location and expanded mer- 
chandise," he said. 

Walker, an IPFW student, said thai there will 
be "a considerable expansion ol music and t- 
shirls |as well as] an improved upon vinyl col- 

Thc collection ol mctal-sludded jewelry will 



increase as well, with ntw arrivals expected lo 
be phased mio Ihe new store. 

According lo Walker, a possible issue with Uie 
new location is the fact that II will be in more of 
a mainstream area and the image of being a 
counter-cultural and anarchistic shop mighl suf- 
fer from it being in a modem, above-ground 
facility. Walker said that this was an issue that 
was taken into consideration. 

In order lo provide Ihe customer with a more 
accessible location and expanded merchandise 
selection, a compromise had to be made, he said. 

Although Ihe new slore mighl portray a 
"clean-shaven, modem image" from the outside, 
customers can rest assured that Ihe interior, 
employees, music, books, clothing and acces- 
sories will carry the same sub-culture mystique 
(hsi 'Subterranean has become known for in Fort 
Wayne 

Subterranean will dose its old store on Sept. 3, 
and will celebrate its grand opening ol Ihe new 
location on Ihe Sept. 4. 

The store will be open seven days a week, II 
a.m. -9 p.m.. Monday through Thursday, and 11 
a.m.-9:30 p.m., Friday and Saturday Sunday 
hours have ye. .o be de.crmined. 




Illustration by Todd Hamm, News Editor 
Subterranean is moving lo 4526 Pamell 
Avenue, nexl to Broadripple Place. The 
owners hope the adijed space and Ihe 
closer location to IPFW will entice 
more customers. 



WWF lays the smack down on Fort Wayne ] Music, frump. i 



Superstars return for first time in two years 

By Kathy Delagrange. Copy Editor Ihe win. 

Former tag team parhiers Test and Albert were 
It had tieen more than two years since the World the next to exchange blows in Uie squared circle. 
Wrestling Federation (VVWF) last took the Fori Wa&gt;Tie These evenly matched competitors pu. forUi a solid 



Expo Center by storm. Sunday, Aug. 26, the bodie; 
the floor as many WWF and WCW/ECW Alliance 
Superstars look to the ring. Although no lilies 
changed hands in front ol the near-capacity crowd, 
the action was healed and potential for new feuds and 
storylines w.is introduced. 

Chavo Guerrero ]t. did battle with Spike Dudley 



effori 



vSr 



I competitors , 
I picking up the nod. Opset by thee 
nlly conlroversial calls, pie rein e-sludded Albert 
took matters into his own hands and polished off ref- 
eree Patrick for Ihe night with a Baldo Bomb. 

Canadians Lance Storm and current 
Inlcrcontinenlal Champion Edge fired up the crowd 
■ 'iUi the fast-paced style both are knovm for. Poised 



in Ihe opening match, Guerrero, relatively unknov^ and ready lo use the Intercontinenlal belt to sway the 
lo WWF fans, dominated Dudley as the fans cheered seesaw match In his favor. Edge's tag team parhior 



Ihe 150-pound underdog's attempts 

his favor. Unsuccessful. Dudley relumeo to me Jocxer 

room, slightly worse for wear. 

The team of Sean O'Hairc and Chuck Palumbo 
entered the ring to take on Hardcore and Crash Holly 

changed hands repeatedly. 
PalumboK -'-- "^ - 



Christian appeared from the backstage . 

Storm, assisting Edge m gaining conlnsl ol Ihe maldi 

and the win. 

In a non-title match. Hardcore Champion Rob 

Van Dam flaunted his aerial style against V2J Chris 
1, ine advantage Jericho. TWo high-flying, charismatic fan favorites, Ihe 
th O'Kalre and athletes entertained the crowd as Ihey swapped 

Thanks to the uncipecled interference c - "' ■ 



a 20-rool 



other tag team action. Ihe Hardy Boys, Matt part of fellow Alliance member Raven. Van Dam's 
and Jeff, were accompanied by Lila as Uiey faced allempf .o nail Jericho wilh Uie Five-Slar Frog Splash 
'as ifiwarled. Jericho sciied the opporhinily, fmish- 
ng Van Dam off for the win. 

In the final match-up ol the night, Olympic gold 
nedalist and former WWF Heavyweight Champion 
;urt Angle at.emp.cd to tame the man-beasi Rhyno. 
jlsedribs. Somewhat distracted by the crowd's chants of 
"Rhyno sucks," Uie master of the Core failed lo con- 
nec. wilh his patented finishing move. Instead, EUiyno 
slammed his shoulder into Uie ringpost, allowing 
Angle lo capitalize on his miscalculation. With the 
crowd behind him, your Olympic hero did not fail to 
■ ■ ■ Rhyno up and inlo the Angle Slam to get Ihe 



Raven and Hurricane Helms. Rainbow-haired Jeff 
was somewhat more cauhous than usual, having 
crashed through a table after attempting t 
Van Dam ivilh a Sivanlon Bomb from atop a 
ladder on Thursday night's episode of mVI 
slon program Smackdown. Despite Jeff's 
Ihe brothers were victorious. 

In singles action. Chris "Who belter Ihan 
Kanyon?" scored wha. could be Icrnied a mild upset 
over ting veteran 'The One" Billy Gunn, In part as a 
result of Ihe controversial refereclng of Alliance senior 
referee Nick Palrick. 

Faarooq and Bradshaw, the beer- guzzling Ihree-count. 
Superstars knoivn as Uie APA, began their lag contest The two and a half hours of aclion was well- 

by giving opponents Mike Awesome and Tommy received by the evening's crowd. Although the event 
Dreamer a verbal thrashing, followed immediately by was no. lelevised, il certainly showcased Superstars 
a physical one. Bruised and battered. Awesome and and performances worthy of Uie crowd's enthusiasm. 
.._j ,_ ,i._i_.i ^jpg Vf\,^i\ the merger of acquisition of many talents from 

lo Fori Wayne the WCW ajid ECW rosters, Uie aclion seems to be 

ie old school." 

i-Von was no. 
jugh lo prevent Ihe Undertaker from picking up show worthy of ihe 520-S40 price of admission. 



. Park earned hij 
Ph.D. in Musical Arts in Choral 
Conducting al Michigan State 
University In May 1997. Park has 
earned degrees from several univer- 
sities in the United Slates including a 
Masters iil' Choral Conducting from 
Cleveland Slate University, Master of 
Music in Voice Performance from the 
Cleveland Institute of Music and fur- 
Uier study with the Robert Shaw 
Choral Insllhite in SoulUac. France. 

At IPFW. Park will again be in 
charge of all choral activities. "He's 
very wise, very quiet, bul Uie slu- 
dente are very impressed with how 
he handles Ihe choir," said Arbaugh. 

Park expressed his thoughts about 
IPFW by saying Ihal, "The campus 
was attractive and the faculty here-I 
respecl them. They were very kind. 
They knew Uie value of ensemble 
choir lo Ihe music department." Park 
has replaced an outgoing' Bill Skoog. 

Of the staff changes, Aibaugn 
said. "It's {the turnover] not normal, 
I don't think. The tumovcr is largely 
coincidental. Some are following 
mates, some are following jobs." 

Arbaugh atlrlbutcs the turnovers 
to mere coincidence, saying that Ihe 
four outgoing staff members had 
olhcr options open up for them al 
nearly the same time. 

Aside from Achler, whose position 
was filled through School of Visual 
and Performing Arts Director 
Benjamin Christy, the search for the 
four replacements involved a great 
deal of student input. 

Arbaugh stressed that Uie school's 
students '...helped to interview and 
evaluate each of the applicants.. .the 
sludents were always for who we 




KARAOKE MAD MONDAY 



STARTS AT SPM ' NO COVER 

SI.7S LONGNECKS • 52 MAD ANTHONY 

PINTS 

Sl.SO SHOTS 

Wednesday. August 29 

in-E ACOUSTIC hWSIC STARTS ATSP» 
'SO COVER- 

MIKE CONLEY 



IPFWs #1 Dance Party Clubl ... DUH! 



THE BEST LIVE ROCK THURSDAY-SATURDAY 



WAILHOUNDS 



Tlira&amp;v, Angost 30 

THE BLUE MOON BOYS 

Frtby.lUgntll 

JOHNNY SOGKO 

Satinfiy.SaiitaiAerl 

XBAY BOGER JIMMY 

LADIES NITE THURSDAY • COVER JUST $1 



MAGGIE SPEAKS 

Sitnuay.StptoDbrS 

GENERATIONS 



M*0*M*S (Midwest Original Music Showcase) 



TBUiy.SaiiUilvll 

Bluabarry lurlcaDe w/Cnis Emlat 



Paar Hausa e Maatar Zal 

On the Landing « 135 W. Cotumbia St., Fort Wayne ■ 422-5055 • www.cotuiiibiastreetwest.com 






a 



