WEDNESDAY, 

September 12, 

2001 



INSIDE: 



Letters to the edilor, p. 2 
OPINIONS 


Reactions lo attacks, p. 2 
OPINIONS 


Impact Art. p. 4 

Features 


Catetena plans, p. 6 
CAMPUS /REGION 



The 



- ^^^^^ A 11%^ www, sludenL iptw.edu/-stupaper/indeih On 

W Communicator 



''oer s\-&lt;^* 



Indiana University — Purdue U^iiversity Fort Wayne 



copy per 
sUidenl 



Volume 36, Issue 4 



News Briefs 

Les Motz celebration of life 
to be held Sept. 17 

"A Celebtalinti o( Life" in honor of Lra Molz. 
rclircd professor of Ihc [Pf^V School of Visual and 
Performing Arts who died last spring, will be held 
Monday, Sept. 17 al noon in Williams Theatre. 

Speakers al Ihc ceremony include Michael Warlell, 
IPFW chancellor; Larry Life, theatre dcparlmcnl 
director; Hetty Fishman. Peg MiUcr-Kcm, Don Katler 
and Benin ■ -" ■- ' .. .l_ ^_,___. _,,,:... 



"Many individuals were very close to Les and we 
decided lo celebrate his life with a campus ceremony 
once classes reconvened for the fall," Susan Domer, 
marketing director for Ihc SVPA said. 

IPFW Multicultural Services 
celebrates Hispanic Awareness 
Month with video series 

The IPt=W Office of Multicultural Services is cel- 
ebrating Hispanic Awareness Month with a free video 

The films ate 45 to 60 minutes. Films arc sched- 
uled (or Sept. 14, 21, 28 and Oct. 5 and 12. For more 
information, call 481-6608 



By Heidi Saliba. Edilor 



those on campus. 

"Our firel reaction is to 
Wlhin an hour of the attacks on Ihe World ensure the safely of mjr studcnW 
Trade Center in New York, Fori Wayne mayor and our staff," Warlell said. 
Graham Richard was olferit\g condolences and "Campus police are working 

isaurances lo those on campus and in Ihe with Fort WavTie police, lust as Photo by Heidi Saliba, Editor 

\ty. Graham, who was attending a meet- they did for the 'Corpus Christi' nsEB at IPFW iverE flown al half-masi Tuesday in response 

■Iv Tuesday morning, was pn^ductions." &gt; .l .i i a ■ 

' '^ "^ ,T. u _ lo the altacks on Amenca. 



Weather 



Today 

Partly cloudy 
High: 79 
Low: 50 

Thursday 

Partly cloudy 
High; 70 
Law: 52 

Partly cloudy 
High: 64 
Low: 45 



IPFW, Fort Wayne 
grapple with disbelief 

Local responses to the attacks on the 
northeastern United States 




a Walb Uni. 




T h 



Resource Center placed all of its 
available tele vis ioi« in the lob- 
bies of buildings around cam- 
pus. Students, hcultt' and serv- 
ice petsormel were huddled en 
masse around Ihe sets; some 
were crying, others were in 
shock and many uttered words 
of disbelief to themselves. 



1 Olympic wrestling diampion Rulon 

who flew into Fort Wayne early Tuesday 

ning. Gardner is the firsl of several Omnibus 



Gardner, who flew ir 



Icctun'ra scheduled for IPFW's 2001-2002 acadci 
Ic year. Universitv Kelnlions announced around 
noon that Catdnur's prt.&gt;sentalion nnd all a.'isociat- 
ed cvenis would continue as scheduled. The lillc 
of Gardner's planned speech wiis "Overcoming 
Obstacles." 

Tlielivalchjplcrol the American f{ed Cross 
-Its nara lo put into announced thai cmergcncv- donations of blood 
words...the low cif life m tha ^^^ ^ accepted for victims of the .ittack. Oy 
horrific tragedy is senseless, „(^„_ ihe center was complelely booked up foe 
said assooate profeaor of My- donations and appointments were being taken for 
chology Shcrwin fCepcs. ''Our ^^^y ' ^ * 

Tlic Fort W,i)-ne lnlematlon.il Airport 
closed around 11:15 a.m. Tuesday as a security 

Photo byOefintez Zhie. Photo Edilor y^„ m'^^rn 'tlfttS'^^'.mW ^"^'" '°""=*"^ '"^'"' """•"■ "«ment. South' 

. '™n CoufoudakiS said a numtjcr a|i„f, fnimlv S.-hiToU wn.t rerwttpd In have 

Chancellor Warlell stood among a group of sludenls of hcultj-. .including ]im Lu^, ^^J^SS^iZ iShiglis^^l 

and staff huddled around the television set in the have been mterviewed through- ^^^y^ 

■Fireside Lounge of Walb Union Tuesday. Wartell said ""h inl^HnL'l^dh S ^ In an emergency national artdicss. President 

., 'h- .L- h ,„,„^ ,„ ^".° '."''^ . ""'" ""S^''?: - "^i George W. Push referred to tlic pcrperator of Ihe 

the university is taking necesja^ty secunty measures lo who is professor and chair of g^^^g ^ , -faceless coward." 1-le also said ihe 



greatest strength is also c 
greatest weakness: we're 
open country," he said. 



protect students and staff of IPFVV, and offered word: 
consolation to those affected by Ihe alUck. 

InfBrrupted by a membcrolttis staff with the news 

of the tragedy. 

"We have done some security analyses and 
are prepared to protect Fori Wayne," Richard s-iid. 
WitfiDul disclosing specific details, the mayor said 
he would evacuate the city if he became aware of 
the reed, and that a phone call lo Ihe governor 
could yield the arrival of air forces. 

IPFW Chancellor Michael Warlell said cam- 
pus security have also taken measures to protect 



,f political science, is writing a 

"The repercussions are 

iiauonwlde...yau're going to sec 

ttiat dav'lo-day at airports and o lol of other 

places, Coufoudalds said. The key will be lo 
respond calmly. We should not make people of 
various ethnic backgrounds, especially those who 
are Arab or Islamic, be the victims of our anger 
because of something some fringe group has done. 
We have lo be very, very careful about these 
things. In World War I, Germans and Italians were 
ostradJed because of their backgrounds." 

Concern was eiqj.essed for the safety of the pp^ iqcbI reactions to Ihe tragedy, seepage 3 



United Stales was being tested and it would pass 
the test, and lliat it would seek out and punish 
those responsible for Ihe incidents. 

An airline crash was also reported 
Intcrstali; ' 395, a major tlioroiighfarc 
Washington. D.C. Part of the Pentagon 
severely damaged wilhin an hour of Iwo pL 
crashing into each of llic New York buildings. All 
of Manhattan island was sealed off in a lock-down 
after the initial violence. Several planes 
hijacked and others were unaccounted for 
several hours during the day Tuesday. 



Outrageous comedian Carrot Top performs in Fort Wayne 



Personal interview 
and show review 

By Dawn Early, Features Editor 

"It's kind of like show and tell with 
liquor," said Carrot Top, also known as 
Scott Thompson, regarding his show. 
He may have described il best himself, 
because this is exactly what his per- 
formance Friday night at the Embassy 
Centre was like. 

Centered around a barrage of props, 
Ihe comedian performed Iwo solid 
hours of quick-paced, attention-grab- 
bing comedy for a sold-oul crowd. 
Non-stop laughler filled Ihe theater 
throughout the performance. 

Carrol Top, who is currently on his 
"Lord of the Props" tour, was able lo 
pull out ob]ecls m rapid succession from 
Ihe more Ihan ten tnmks which lined 
Ihe stage. Things |ust kept coming with 
imaginative descriptions, such as his 
grandmother's bra. Britney Spears' 
Diow dryer, me Busn daugmer s tiask 
made from a school book. Venus 
Williams' beaded tennis racket, and 

"My show is diffcrcnl Ihan what 
everybody else is doing," Top said. 
There is no doubt that he gels an 'A' lor 
originality. 

Top's philosophy on clothing, "never 
match-il s boring, was evident Fnday 
evening. Top exploded onto the stage 
wearing a blindingly bright orange shirt 
with a pair of non traditional neon cam- 
ouflaged panls. The ensemble was com- 
pleted wilh a pair of clunky shoes 



"1 want a lot of il lo be off the cuff, yet 
I want to be kind of prepared," he said. 
He familiarizes himself with local facts. 
such as Ihc current Coliseum construc- 
tion and makes notes about current 
events. He says his whole day is geared 
towards Ihat night's show, 

"I have an outline... and then I ad bb 
around il." he said. This is what allows 
for spontaneity and variety in each 



the same, but he says Ihat this is impor- 
tant to keeping his show fresh, 

"It's almost like you have lo reinvent 
vourself to a certain degree, all the time- 
have lo keep up with the current 

Ihal'c onloi, n-n '' &gt;&lt;» t,iA 



stuff that's going on.'' he said 

"I'm like a workaholic, ..but I really 
love it." He says that is what it takes to 
get lo this level. From that point. Ihe 
work revolves around mainlaining Ihat 



"You'vi 



d shov 






a- 



The props provided an element of 
optical stimulation that is normally 
absent m other comedy routines. Tlie 
show moved so quickly that il was 
impossible to ttecome bored, mudi less 
detect a pattern or theme, lumping from 
Michael Jackson to rednecks to airport 
oightmates ,lo Nascar to politics and 
back to rednecks kept Ihc audience's 
attenhon and Ihe show moving. 

With regard to preparing tor his high- 
ly spontaneous shoivs, he said that men- 
ially, he does not do a lot. He is careful 
Hoi to over-piBparc. 



'...so they'll appreci- 
ate coming back." Top said. 

The performance was saturated with 
lights, lasers, sound effects, music and 
video effects. Similar lo an extravagant 
rock show, there was never a dull 
moment. Even before the show began, 
the audience was entertained by a 
humorous video. 

"1 didn't want them to look at the 
curtain and the microphone for an hour, 
1 wanted to give them something pnor 
to me coming." Top said. He says that 
he tries to make sure the audience geLs 
their money's worth. 

Top supports many charities. He lists 
the A.LD5 Foundation, The Bed Cross. 
The Ronald McDonald House and the 
5PCA as some of his favorites. 

Top. onginally from Cocoa Beach, 
Fla., currently has two homes. One is 
located in California and one is in 
l3rlando. Between traveling from home 
to home and lounng approumately 200 
days a year, lie claims to have enough 
frequent flyer miles lo paint Ihe planes 
orange. However, Ihe animal lover 
admits ttial there are some Aow-n falls lo 
being on the road all Ihe time, 

"That's one of the doivi\sides lo bemg 




Photo used with permission and contnbuted by Jonas Marftelmg. 
Flamboyant and outlandish comedian Carrot Top brought his gag-filled stage act and red mop top 
See Carmt Top. p. 3 to the Embassy Center on Friday, SepL 7. 



Page 2 The Communicator 



Opinions 



■milely hj5 an ellecl on jIJ oi us, not 
wha[ was (he purpose., we can spccuLile on \ 
Id il bur vjc fcally don'l know. I feel for Ihe 
try; il this u the moment we need lo b« strong and 

as a country, il needs to be done. We need 
blood donations and others services. We need lo 

together as a nation and disregard racial 
grounds. 



Pallcr 



Gjhndo. ^ 



ral Scrvi 



's hard lo pul into words,. Ihe in 
agcdy oi the number ot innocenl people 
ho an.' going lo bp physically gone and Ihi 
:orc5 and scores ol people who are going li 
I? scarred by this. For people to try and con 
prchend how an Indiviifual can lalce hi 
lives this way and believe il was a just 
t.iuse.is incomprehensible. Some people 
Killing to throw a dart on the wall and hi 
whatever Muslim counlry it lands on. thi 
ri-sponse is a normal response, which is 
rL'vengc. I'm not saying it's right. How do you 
know who to take revenge on7 I'r 
mywlf. My daughter is allending a conference 
in New York right now and today I was terri- 
fied. Ten thousand lives.,.how do you even 
ri-spond to somcltiing like that? To think one 
nerson could be orcheslraling this smacks you 
n the face withthe fact thai a tiny, tiny minon- 
;y can create havoc. Our grealest strength is 
ilso our grealest weakness: we're an open 
:ountry. It's such a senseless wast 




Letters to the editor 



To Ihe editor 






one knoiv when the caielena and pro- 
posed Pizza Hut m Walb will be open and 


III 1 am ri'lumme locampus aller a 


I7-vear hiatus and 1 was unpleasantly sur- 


what is holding up Uve show? 


prised lo nol see an active cafeteria in the 




student union building. Also, 1 am 




amazed that the Subway in Ketller is so 
limited in what it can olfcr and that some 






ili'ins (for eiample provolone rheesc) run 


' 



I recently picked up a copy ol The publishing ai 
&lt; ummunicjlof ^nd read Ihe letter lo the dent' 



riltc 



by Zachary Randall in instead of only publishing thi 
alhan Diehl's editorial. Right," the paper could prir 



LiRht," the 



Left." Yes. we can write letleis I 
tors, but I feel thai as a universily 
paper. The Communicator should pres-' 
ent both sides when addressing such con- 



ci^ponse to Nathan Diehl's editorial, 
hrum the Right." This then caused me t 
lind an old copy of The Communicator t 
vw what Mr Dichl had writlcn. Aid 
reading both articles and the mosi currer 
article, where Diehl addresses the issue t 
partial-birlh abortion, I have begun t 
n'onder il this is The Communicator', 
way of promoting the sthool paper. In Jennifer IMoher 
lad, even Ihe edilor, Heidi SaUba, staled Junior 
she was pleased with the many editori- Environmental Policy 
ills the paper received. However, 
jU ol the letters were in response lo 
Ilichl's article. One can debale morals, 
leligion and so on, but should Ihe school 
, paper be a place lo do il? The argument 



I defin. 



paper could print Ihe olhcfi 



To the edi 

In regards lo Today's action, tomorrow's 
regrets," by Nathan DiehJ, Sept. 12: as slated in your 
-&gt;wn arlicle. Roe v. Wade made specific guidelines 
ibout viability. Justices delibcrale each individual case 
-jiiot with whimsy, but rather carefully, considering 
^precedence and constihitionality. So my queslion. Sir, 
is what is the point of your article? 

Would you like to see Roe repealed? Amended? 
When you decide, perhaps yoo can write a more 
, thoughtful editorial that has"somc substance and fac- 
1 Itual backing, 

'.\ In ii!rercnce:aa.Jaii&amp;Bo*,.Roe v. Wade was a lind- 

IP^mark ruling •►•at determined where the govemment' 



Ijurisdiclion begins and ends. This 
'happened no matter whose names wen 

, to Ihe impof lance of this case. 

"Today it seems abortion practiti 

To the editor: 



■ would have 
nvolvcd. Jane 



ry gi f 

grab Ihe baby.. ' II you are Inily an 
responsibility, tell me, how responsible is 
false and misinterpreted inlormalion as if 
How can you stale the law and than throw this igno- ; 
rani line out as though i( were the common practice? * 
The fad is only 1.4 prcent of abortions are performed 
after 20 weeks (read: woman's health in question), and ; 
this 15 a marked decrease because of education and ■ 
available health care services. Remember, your audi- ' 
educated, dusceming one, not a gullible ' 

Bottom line; until you have an informed oplnioi 

and somelhing rational and intelligible lo say. keepTl 

yourdaguslbig sensattonaUslic propaganda BTyBur-i-l 



Erica Reiil 
Graduate Student 
Public and Envirom 



lor staging a 




morality for himself. It was 

actually scares me lo hear entire 

le write this. Ate we 

i: that Mr. Diehl 




[ One of the most valued experiences in my life is rantingol our managing edili 

, 'the ongoing process of questionine the 'moral code' ing space between people on fssues The respor 

Ithat I hold. My parents were certainly sincere when, by that is generated by their speech helps to broaden the 

;word and example. Ihey taught me what was "right." scope ol the debate. I applaud one% willingness to' 

1,-jTtial does nol mean thejDnnciples they chose to live by share his opinion on the stgge and the other's ollorls to 

f, I... •„ J... I I., do the same in The Communicator. That doesn't i 



ly HitI 
ig? He had z 

defend those beliefs lo II 
Mr. Diehl, 1 a 



ichuiih says . . . _._ , ^ 

f imenis concerning Ihe motives of olhere, which quite Topic for public di 

_ _...(- jnalurally follow this narrow belief, arc poisonous lo Perhaps you should pul it away in a safe place. 

have supported nol saying you do support! -I'nlelligcntdebale on issues. Reasonable and After all, haven't you borrowed il from '- — 

slavery? Millions upon these Ihings. But we don'tf ' compassionatepeoplecanradicallydilferinlhestanee 

_,!!.___ ' people believed support those Ihings^'".''*!'^)' choose to take on such topics as gender equality, I\ielissa Hunter 

■■ ' ' ■ ■ this is" )repn3duclivc rights and academic freedom. Sophomore 

idemic setting, and in practical terms as French 



millions , ,....__ ^^ .„, 

in Iheir hearts Ihat slavery because, and 1 knoi 
was nol only necessary, but controversial, there are 
moral, as well. Since Ihey absolutes in the world. 
" Morality is nol defined by 
what you feel or what 
righl at the t 



a third-year stu- 

■dent at IPFW. This year is 

Bihc lirsl time I have ever 
read Ihe campus newspa- 
per. As 1 was readfnR 
through il, I was impressed 
until I came to Nathan 
Diehl's arlicle called 
"Morality defined," 

1 am a conservative believed this, should 

and I can only assume by have just let ilgo? 

the title of Nathan's cdito- Whal about Hitler? Would __ ^... _. „. 

rials cvcrjj week, "From Mr. Dichl have nol gone to Somebody is right and 

Ihe Right,' Ihat he is, as war in defense of Ihe Jews? somebody is wrong, ' 

ivdl. Everything about his After all, we all define our '-- 

I'dilorial was flawed. II did morality for ourselves, 

nol sound like somelhing right? These may seem 

someone ivho truly repre- extreme, bul if you follow who say e. 

sents Ihe "right" would the logic of "my morality is defines his/h 

soy. Nalhan starts off hv my own, don't push yours and Ihen go on lo say 

paying, "Whether ones on me," Ihose are the your edilorial telling a Uc 

morals consist o( a 'wfial- things you would have to wrong. Be more 

ever feels good, do if phi- allow, 

losophyor if one wishes lo Some of you reading Jon Davison 

hold to the siriclest ol this are saying "of course Junior 

morals, a person should no one can ever support Hislory/educatii 

never lei anyone bring such barbaric behavior." 
down his morals." According to Mr. 

Basically, there Diehl and his support of 

arc no absolutes. Each those who think this way, 



valid for situations f face from day lo day. 1 1 _, 

borrowed Iheir views until I did Ihe necessary work lo 
|determine what was lo be my oivn moral code. 

Some parts of the moral code ol my parents' era 
have withstood the scrutiny of my intemaf debate and 
|these I now embrace with increased lenaoty. OUicr 
ideas, however, did not sur\'ive, like Ihe belief that 
[every problem has one perfect solution— the one the 
" God's opinion on the matter The jud^- 




lagree with either one, only with Iheir righl lo presents i 
their belie! in a public forum. '' " 

If a play or column lests your beliefs, there is . _ 
need to fee! iiuultcd. gel angry or make bomb threats. f. 
Tiy to view it as nothing more and nothing le 
opporhjnity to verify Ihe "Inith" you believe 
your version seems too fragile lo survive debate withflj 
those who hold opposing views, then don't make it al 



know it stinks to accept, 
bul thai is the way it is. 
"— '■ iupport those 



To Ihe editor 

As a graduate sludent in Ihe 
[School of Public and 
lEnvirorunental Alfaii 



children m the process Because ol 
my background, which also 
includes professional business 
cicperience and rnany years ol com- 
ily involv ' 



.- iht 



"istudent member of the Board of ably represent all lU students 



Trustees, I have Ihe following goal: 

ilo protect and preserve Ihe proud 

„ ,f. I ilradiiion of academic excellence 

■""""■y [. land public service that are Ihe hall- 

^1- 'marks ol Indiana University. 

I bring to my role as sludent 
itrusleetheperspeclivesof one who 
jhas been a non traditional part-time 
'student, a parent and an intema- 
[lional studenl. I was bom in 
jjSwit/eriand and came to live in Ihe grad. 
United Slates 10 years ago. I earned family 



I University's 



ghl of Indi, 

I intend lo make my voice 
heard as a member of the lU Board 
of Trustees, bul I need your help lo 

In order to perform my role as 

effechvely as pcssible, I need your 

suggestions, insights and opinions, 

whether you arc a hill-lime under- 

studcnt wilh a 

candidate for a Master's 



quality ol thi 

receiving and further Ihe excellen&lt; 
of Indiana Universilv? L 

keep yourH 
my mind!* 



^S 



In short, I wan I 
uppermost 
during my lime as shjdent 

■fiiere are two easy ways 
contact me. For specific questioi 
please feel free lo email me alPJ 
swillseyeuidiana.edu. To subscnbetj 
lo the studenl trustee's electronic' 
mailing Lsl, which will focus nnl' 
sludent issues, send an email 
bdot_sltr«indiana.edu wilh I 
word, "subscribe" in Ihe mcssagel 
field. ' 



my bachelor's degree al 31. learn- or Ph.D. degree. 1 

ing to balance ine demands of what you are thinking. Whal do 

[being a spouse and mother of two you believe would cfJiance your Sacha I. Witlsey 



I look forward to hearing from you.H 



Editorial Board 



Contact Us! 



Editorial Policy 



Features 



"Carrot Top," pom p. I 

Top, who gol his ilart 3l open mic nighl while 
allending collegD al Flonda AlLjnuc Un.vmily, 
says il lakes a lol o( hard work and luck to 
become successful. He fcpk very forlunale Ihal 
he broke through when he did. 

He says Ihal being in the righl place al Ihe 
righl lime lo gel yout break a imporlanL 'I 
believe in Ihal because I have a lol of (ncnds who 
are iuruiicr Ihan me and haven't gol a break yel," 

Pnor lo his receni AT&amp;T commercials, Carrol 
Top was seen in movies such as 1998's "Dermis 
Ihe Menace SInkes Aeain" and headlined in 
"Chairman of Ihe BoanT" He has also hosted his 
own show, "Carrol Top's AM. Mayhem." on 
cable's Carloon Network and has made numer- 
ous appearances on The Tonighl Show with Jay 
Lcno," "Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher" 
and "Kcgis and Kathy Lee." 

Top said Ihal Ihe (ocus in Ihe enlerlainment 
industry is always on the neil projecl. "I think 
everybody, artists, always want to do ' 



"I'm content with where I am. ..I'm pretly 
amazed that I've gotten this far because I never 
thought I could," he said. 

Top's resume includes awards such as the 
1994 American Comedy Award (or BeslSland-up 
Comic and Ihe 1995 American Comedy Award 
for Comic of the Year 

Top considers people like Jonathan Winters, 
Robm Williams and Gary 9iandling lo be his 
major comedy influences. He said GcorecCarlin, 
who he commonly refers lo as "Tlie Master," is 
his biggest in/luencc and all-time favorite hero. 

Alffmugh his act focused mainly on props, he 
did manage to poke fun at various cclebriliEs 
along Ihe way. Names such as Bill Clinton. 
George Bush, Michael Jackson, Gary Gondii. 
Hanson, Rosie O'Donnell and Brillany Spears all 
made Ihe cut. 

With a father who worked (or NASA and a 
brother wlio is a professional pilot. Top said. 
"I'm adopted. I think. I'm the black sheep of the 
family." He says Ihal he docs have an mtercsting, 
eclectic family thai is pretty close. 

He says his family's Thanksgiving dinners are 
jusl like anyone else's. "We meel, we eat and you 
can't wail to get the hell out of there." He loves 
his family, but he says that docs not mean he has 
lo hang out with Ihem all day. 

"1 Ihink they really like what I do. ..every' 
body's a big fan." Top said about his family. 

Top made his parents proud when he gradu- 
ated from college with a degree in marketing. He 
said that he wanted lo go lo college. He says that 
if you look through Ihe show, vou can see the 
cleverness and Ihal his performance takes 
Ih ought. 

"I wanted lo have Ihal degree; I jusl wanted lo 
say I did il." He says Ihal now he is glad he has 



that marketing background because Ihal is wlul 
his show IS allaboul. 

*! love marketing. 1 had a logo before 1 had an 
act," \k said. Top designed his own shadow logo 
and put it on l-shirts and hats. His entire career, 
including the wrfjsitc and Ihc merchandise, 
revolves around his degree in a way he never 
thought it could- 

His act did incorporate some real life ind- 
dcnls One series explained how he was pulled 
over for boating and coi«uming alcohol simulta- 
neously. When asked if this irally happened, he 
admitted Ihal it had. Hesaid, 'They IcI us go, but 
they kind of veiled at us." 

Top says Ihal he's never been m trouble with 
Ihe law. Even as a kid. Top admits to being Ihe 
class clown, bul never getting in trouble. "In 
school I was always the class clown, but I never 
gol senl to Ihe dean's olficc because I was a 
dean's aid." He said he krww how lo work the 
syslem from the very beginning. 

Top seems lo have a liking lor drinks such as 
Grown Royal and coffee. This may explain the 
amount of energy he displays while on stage. He 
claims to sleep rurely and appears to be over-caf- 
feinaled often. 

When asked his favorite food, he says, 
"Grown Royal," without hesitation, but when 
forced to pick a solid, he says Ihal thin and cnspy 
pizza IS what really docs il for him. 

"I haven't been stopped in 13 years. I've been 
doing even more than I have ever done." Top 
says that because of his receni AT&amp;T commer- 
cials, some people wonder il he's still doing 
stand-up. He has no plans of quilting any time 

When it comes to music. Top lists favorites 
such as Pink Royd. The Rolling Stones, The 
Grateful Dead, ABBA, Phish, Pearfjam and clas- 
sic Ellon John. 

The grand finale to his show was the opening 
of Ihe rock n' roll trunk and Top's own rock star 
qualities were allowed lo shine through. He rap- 
idly impersonated star after star, while clips of 
their songs played. He went from Melallica lo 
Macy Gray in a matter of seconds. It was a spec- 
tacular, con lei ti- filled conclusion to an amazing 
performance. 

Most imporlanlly, he said that he tries lo enjoy 
what he is doing. While on stage, he Iries to take 
it all in and enjoy Ihe moment because he says 



try lo enjoy the moment, 
the scene," He said he Iries to focus on enjoying 
whal he has now, rather than focusing on the 

His website at \vww. carrot top, com offers per- 
sonal, tour and merchandise information, as well 
as photos. 



Mondays &amp; Wednesdlays 

Sizzle At ChiBi'S®! 



^^aii^ai 




Fajiia 'Ri^a Mondays 

We do Mondays like no 

place else. Enjoy a 

clouble order of faji'tas 

'Bt*^*'. _ (KJ^^^I^ (enougK for ^Two) for Jusi til! 

And a 10 02. mug of 

Top Shelf Margariia 

IS only t2.* 

Baby Back 'N Brew Wednesday 



"I wanf my Baby Back..' 

Enjoy a full rack of CKili's" 

famous double bas'l'ed. 'flame 

filled Baby Back Ribs wiiK 

cinnamon apples and Homesiyle 

fries for jus^i- »9.99 and a 10 oi 

domestic draft for jusf (lOO.** 



chilik 

"G R I LL^^&amp; BAF 




(G 



D 



For* Wayne ^^„g, 

317 £ Coliseum 
219-471-2979 



_&gt;lsba[ ■Offiir vdid mry 




'^^ Campus 

^ Calendar 



for Sept. 13-26,2001 



13 Lecture and reception honoring Alan R. 
Sandilrom, 'Pilgnmage, Blood Sacnfice, and 
Ethnic Ideniiiy Thirty Years of Field Research 
Among NahualndiansofMe)aco.*WU22J. 
330 p-m.; for reservations, call 6795. 

Student Life Activitiei: for information, call 6609. 

13 SAB'i Great Amencan Dance and Drrve In, 
WU Patio, dusk. 

17 President and treasurers training, WU G2 1 . 
noon-1 p.m; also Sept. 18. WU Hi A- 
Sp.m.andS«pt.l9.WUG21,l-2p-m. 

26 SAB'sMuttonslnflatables.WUMall, lOa m 

Academic C ountellm? &gt;nd Career Sefvicei; for 

info rma tion. call 6600. 

14 Career assessment group interpretation, 
KT12B.noon,alsoSepL19.iaG41, 

4;1 S p.m. and Sept. 16, KT G41. 530 p.m. 
22 Prari I ( Prep rofessional Assessments for 
Beginning Teachersl, CM, 7:30a,m. 

15 Lunch with an IPFW Sdenliit "LEGO 
Robots,'CarloiPomalau-fl3ezandBrenda 
Grolf, Science Central. 1 1:30 a.m.-l p m„- S5, 
members; SIO, nonmembers, f or 

) 19-424-2400. 



16 Women's Studies celcbrilet iti 2S* 
Anniversary with a film, Whots Cooking? 
and reception. Cinema Center. 4l30 p.m, 
SIS, IPFW employees, students, and Cinem, 
Center members: S20, general public 
Reservationsrequired; call 219-426-3456, 



17 Honors Program: Lunch table with 
Pro lesior Richard Johnson, KT G35. noon; 
in(omiatjon.call69i4. 

18 ADAteleconferenc*:'Oestgnlng Accessible 

Lodging facilities.* WU 114, 1 p.m; free and 
open to Ihe public For information, call 6657. 

19 Wellneii Centers' Blood Health 

Screenings, la 108, 7-10 a.m..-atso 
Sept, 27. 

20 University Religious Forum: 'Coping with 
Posl-AbonionTrauma.'WU222.noon- 

1 .1 S p.m. Complimentary lunch; donations 
accepted. For information, call 6993. 
Invitation to review the Sttaiegk Plan 
DraH la 146, 3-4:1 5 p.m.; for information. 
cal)679S. 

23 Symphonic tWind Ensemble, Reed Thomas, 
director, NF Recital Hall. 2:30 p m. Admission 
for IPFW students with ID, free; adults, S't; 
seniorcitiiens,S3:aiher students. $1. For 
informalion,call67l4. 

25 AAUW-IPFW Book Croup, IheRed Tenl by 
AnitaDiamanlKT 101, noon; guests and 
brown-bag lunches welcome. For 
information, call6833. 
Honors Program: National Collegiate 
Honors Council Satellite Seminar, KT G20, 
6:30-8 p.m. For information, call 6924, 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



(comcast 



ssi«-ss««. 



(inciuUeseaulBmeiiO 
and 




,,.-o.11«ino56t*»l-&gt;1' 

Al«,SO'-N.«"«'°"'"' 

-.*«.o second phone l'« 
.Quit paying for sew. y 

10«BofWebsP&lt;«"* 
.f.e.tuhnW"''"-"-'^ 

i„pn&gt;&gt;«yo&lt;'W°™'"^ 



Skhmmw^^ 



isijfc 



Features 



September 12. 2001 



Impact Art 



By Chris Sullc 



, Hall w 




Cul out this artjclc. Tipe it inside 3 notebook- The following Ccek Cirl Public Service AiuiounceRienl 
could prevent 3 migrjinc. 

Many students are about lo be flooded with art history tests, papers or projects. Inlemet sources tan 
be oF use, even required, but thousands of art-related sites oist. Uh-oh. The stress- induced head pain is 
beginning... 

Relax. Ader siphoning through Ihe Intemel masses, here arc some of the belter sources: 

'Arllei hltp://www.jrllc».fQm 

This site serves more as a quick reference spot to look up ail-relaled definilioiu or a quick synopsis 
o( an art movement. This is not a site lo use for in-depth knowledge, but Arllcx can assist in studying terms 
(or certain tests (hml-ftml, Goodman's Hill cDural 

Ttic Melropoillan Museum of Art hltpr//www.mi'lmii';mimor(; 

The Met offers a section called "Explore And L.eam" featuring in-deplh analysis of works and 
artists. An art timeline is available and a sub-seclion called "Themes &amp; Cultures" exists, which might also 
prove handy for history, sociolo^ or 

anthropology students. The silc is set up with images and colors so people can navigate through without 
falling asleep. 

•Mark Harden's Archive http://www..irchive.com 

The title sounds cheesy, but Ihe sile is visually well-coru true ted and easy to navigate. The site not 
only ofleis the basics on artists and movements, but also features links to other sources. The section 
"Theory It Criticism" contairu actual excerpts from art lesls, a veritable treasure chest of information for 
art papers. The site also fealuns "(uxta posit ions," a section with art images and links lo acquire prints, 

■Internet AHResource) http://www.artresourres.rnm 

This site offers articles on artwork. The downside is thai Ihe site concentrates more on art currenlly 
on exhibit. If searching (or a work that is part of a permanent collection, this may not be the best sile to 

•Art History Resources httri://wilcombe.bfpw-';bf.itlu/ARTHLmk.';.hlml 

Okay, if that long email address has not (righlened people away, this site features every arl calegory 
imaginable from artists to movements lo cultures. This site is also easy lo navigate. 

•Aricyflopediahtlp://www..irtcyflopedia.fnm 

This site offers a massive art database, Sub-caltrgories include arlisls, art movements, art mediums 
and nationalities. The sile is more text-related, though and is not as visually appealing lo navigate. 

This sile does not always feature arl. but the ariicles arc in-depth and Ihe site is highly interactive 
when art fealurcs do appear. Currently, no art is featured, but check the sile archives Tor articles and 
images of ancient Egyplian art. This silc is a fun source lo check in on from lime lo time, 

Olhcrsilescan also provide art information, but the siles listed above pnavide a solid foundation for 
approaching arl research. Keep these siles in mind to avoid headaches later. 



INVITATION 

All IPFW Students. Faculty, and Staff 

are invited 

to contribute to a campus-wide review of IPFW's 

DRAFT STRATEGIC PLAN 

Help address the future mission, 

vision, and goals of IPFW by joining members of the 

IPFW STRATEGIC PLANNING GROUP 

in Ketller 146 on: 

Wednesday, September 12, from noon-I:15 p.m. 

or 

Thursday, September 20, from 3-4:15 p.m. 

Call 481-6795 if you have questions. 




- JTRfSSfP AROWT KOT 
HAVm^ AK kf&gt; l&gt;ESi«K COPY 

neS SOPS I¥ son ^ 

c(dv«p«lsa In 'BHs 
ContMsmtlecxftop? 

HAVE YOUR PROBLEMS SOLVED 



4SX-6S83 




P}-e5enting dowi fi{mittire that leaves yon money for tuition. 





• 1,2,3 Bedroom 
Apartment &amp; Townhouses 

• 42 Spacious Floorplans 

• Four Sparkling Pools 

• Fully-Equipped 

Health Club 

• Tanning Beds &amp; Sauna 

• 18-Hole Golf Course &amp; 
Miniature Golf 

• Executive Suites Available 

• Racquetball &amp; Lighted 
Tennis Courts 

1-800-901-8664 

2(&gt;l 3 Abbey Drive • Fi. Wayne, FN 46835 

Canterbury Creen ,^L '^^ ^^ 



iy 





Adu\r Children of Senously Mentally ILL 
Mothers 



l«nouily mtnCaDy il 



For mn &lt;nf ormaDon, cxntoct the rt 
Kathleen O'Convn by phon* at ZI9-4S1-579S or by 



Find buried 
treasure in 
yourgaraee. 



O.Boms 

Do yiHj tuw Did SJVlnp Bondj? 
CMtX oul Uh SjvinEi Bond Cjloililor 
a I vrivwLuvlng3bondi.gov lo dEu Dv«f 
IlKir vUuc. 1-8D0-4US BOND _^ 



Puerto Vdkrto from $939 



SpPiR^S $ 10 Inifa! Deposit 

Ol'tSaK! Prices Include; 



MotoPCMch from yo*n- 
(olligc to the airport 
{boMd on Tnpte Occuponcy) (groups of 6 or mor«) 
March 3-10 or 10-17 ^ Non-ltop Service out of 

Cancun from $999 Chicago 
(b&lt;Bid on quod Occupancy) -i 7 nghtj at a grtot hotel 
March 2-9 or 916 % -Airport/Hot el traiufers 

lestis 

l-aOO -6^3-4604 www. edgertoMtrave! com 



HiPAlitisO 



WHY TAKE THE RISK? 



MAKE SURE YOU GET VAXED. 




Hejjgfitis B is a very uncool thing. 

If G a liver irifebtion that can make you really sick for weeks or monfh&amp;. 
Most people pick if up as teenagers or young edullB, so college fs prlmS; 
time for hepatitis B. You can get It by having sex, or by exposure^ib^ 
infected blood or body tluids through scrapes or cuts on the play (lefa. 
Or through repeated sharing of an infected person's toothbrush, earringa 
or razor. Even potentially by being pierced or tattooed. The only good 
thing about hepatitis B is that It's easy to prevent. Just go to the on- 
campus hepatitis B vaccination clinic listed below, and they'll start you on 
hepatitis B vaccination. Rnish the three-dose series, and you won't have 
to worry about missing out, messing up or turning an embarrassing shade 
of yellow. 

Don't fake fhe risk. Oef vaccinated. 

VACCINATION DAY SCHEDULE 



DATE : September 20^ 2001 



TIME: 10 a.m. - 6 p.m. 



PLACE ! IPFW/PARKVIEW HEALTH &amp; 



WELLNESS CLINIC WALBRM.234 



IPFVITs #1 Dance Party Clubl ». DUHI 




THE BEST LIVE ROCK THURSDAY-SATURDAY 



Ibursdav. Segtembar n 

SUNNY TAYLOR BAND K FRIENDS 
BLACK TDDTH GRIN -^o.,ii 



FAT ASS ZEKE 

Frttsy. saptanABT Zl 

HEAVY STEP 

Sitirday.S(|itBnAar22 

THE AGENCY 

LADIES NITB THURSDAY • COVER JUST $1 



Satirby.SfliitBjdnrli 

GD DOG GO 




Wiowcase) 



TDBsitBy. SaptaatBT IS 

Tito DIsGovBry w/Cornfad Johnson 



TDBBlay, Septadnr 2G 

STRUTIRAINW/TBA 




MiA.^ 



On the Landing ' 135 W. Columbia St, Fort Wayne ' 422-S055 ' www.columbiastreetwestcom 



Campus/Region 



Page 6 The Cort 



Campus Wire 

Time names lU one of four 
Colleges of the Year 

BLOOMINCTON, [nd, - (lU News) Time 
maeazme ha.-i named Indiana Universily as lis 
College of thp Year among research instilulions 
TTic magazine's editors made Ihc selecdon based 
on lU's range of proKrams to help freshmen lo 
suceeed and. ^ a result, lo improve relenlion and 
graduation rates. 

"Helping new students survive has. m our 
judgment, became an essential responsibility of 
ci'ery college," the magazine states in its Sept. 10 
edition, now on Ihe newsstands. "In seleclme our 
2001 Colleges of Ihe Year from among candidates 
recommended by our advisory board, the editors 
soughl instilutioru with comprehensive fresh- 
man programs that have improved retention 
rales and cre.lled a sense of community (or stu- 

lU was recognized (or its variety of programs 
geared (o the different needs d( entering fresh- 
men. "TTie university has launched several small, 
targeted efforts ralhcr than a onc-size-f its-all 
solution," according to Time. 

Among the programs cited by the magazine 
are the Intensive Freshman Seminars, which 
bring small groups of freshmen to campus before 
the starl o( regular classes to work wilh faculty 
members and current students in specific subject 
areas; Freshman Interest Groups, in which fresh- 
men can live and study with other incoming stu- 
dents with similar academic interests; the Groups 
Program, which offers a 



Communication department 
undergoing radical reconstruction 



By Heidi Saliba, Editor 



Regis I 



. PhUbin hosts show 
at Notre Dame 

Television personality Regis Philbin broad- 
casled his talk show "Livel With Regis and 
Kelly" Irom the University of PJotrc Dame cam- 
pus Thursdav, Sept. 6. 

The live broadcast was held in conjunction 
wilh Philbin's participalion in groundbmaking 
ceremonies for the university's now Marie l^ 
DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, which 
was held on campus at 10 a.m. the same day, 
Philbin. .1 1953 Notre Dame graduate, made a 
S2.75 million contribution to the center, which 
will include a studio theater in his name. 

Philbin received an honorary doctor ol laws 
degree from Notre Dame in 1999 in recognition 
of his previous gifts to the university in support 
of scholarships and other services lo the school. 



Oauid Switzer, chair of the departmenl. said 
Ihe transition has been smoolh due lo a coopera- 
tive spirit among (acully members. 

"It s been an elfort thai required maximum cot- 
legialjly and the communicalion folks did it," 

Jeanne Barone, a tenured instructor who direct- 
ed Ihe teaching of all COM 114 (Public Speaking) 
courses, had resigned to accept a chaplaincy. She 
had prtvious experience in the field from working 
with hospice. "I think she's decided to use her 
considerable interpersonal skills with different 
constituents." Swilzcr said. 

Barone also. taught upper division courses 
including those which addressed Intercultural 
Communication, Ihe Communication of Peace. 
Art as Communication and Representation of the 
Holocaust. A member of the Honors faculty, 
Barone co- instructed several courses with associ- 
ate professor Steve Carr. Carr (also an Honors fac- 
ulty member) is on sabbatical this semester. 



lane Baivks and Jonathan Tardiel will both l&gt;o on 
sabbaNcal in Ihe spring. Claudia McCallman, ivho 
was assistant professor with responsibilities ui 
health commurucation and applied communica- 
tion, left toaccept a position at a southeastern uni- 
versily. 

"IVe've tried to schedule courses strategically 
so we'll be okay." Switier said. 

Emily Osbun-Bermes Kas*as.sumed Baronc's 
responsibilities over the teaching of COM 114 
courses. Bermes earned both her bachelor's and 
master's degrc« (wm IPFW. 

"We're happily employing our own," Switzer 
said. 'Emily ivas a distinguished teaching assis- 
tanl and I was very happy she was inlerested in 
taking on Ihe 114 director's chair." 

EDcDorah God win-St arks, a visiting mstructor in 
communication and academic adviser is teaching 
Women. Men and Media, as well as some COM 
114 courses. Codwin-Slarks was described by 
Switjer as a practicing media professional whose 
expertise is in apolied communicahon. Currently 
she hosts a West Lafayette radio show, 

"She's a terrific example of a student-centered 
faculty member," Switzer said, "We were very for- 
tunate to get the resources lo hiit Deborah." 

Irwin Mallin is teaching Orgonizalion 
Communication and Interpersonal 



Mallin holds a Ph.D. in 
Commurucation and Culture which he earned 
from tU Bloommgton. as vtvll as a fD he earned 
while at Syracuse. His specialty is legal a 



Another netv addition to the departmenl is 
Isabel Molina, who holds a Ph.D. from the 
Aruienburg School at Ihe University of 
Pennsylvania, Molina was the cdi I o^ in-chief of 
the school's daily newspaper, whose circulation at 
Ihe time was over 43,1X10. Her specialties are in 
discourse analysis, qualitative analysis and popu- 
lar culture and its vanables. Switzer said Molina's 
research recently received very high praise at a 
pop culture association national meeting. Moliru 
leaches moss media courses this semester. 

Molina and lr^vin were hired after the conduc- 
tion of national searches, (vhich began nearly a 
year ago. 

Help for certain other tcachmg responsibilities 
has come from within the graduate program, 
Switzer said. "We've hired a lot of new graduate 
aides and our graduate program is going great," 

The communication departmenl is part of the 
School of Arts and Sciences, the largest at IPFW. 



Cafeteria changing to meet students' needs 



By Mishanna Wood, Chief Reporter 

Student surveys have prompted the university 
lo change the structure of the cafeteria after 
Aramark's five-year contract ended in July 
Currently The Fort, localed in the basement of 
Walb Student Union is closed for construction to 
accommodate Pizza Hut. Subway and house 
caterer Splendid Fare. 

In the meantime, meal choices are limited to 
one contracted food vendor and a few student 
organization vendors. 

IPFW has been searching lor vendors since last 
September when they hired a consultant specializ- 
ing in campus food ooeralions. The university 
sent out 10-12 Request lor Proposal documents to 
explain what was desired. 

"Many businesses would only allow one con- 
cept and it was more expensive than working 
with local operations. Last spring, I would have 
told you that we would have Aramark because we 
couldn't find a caterer tfiat would allow separate 
conlracts. We had lo change our direction sub- 
stantially. This is a new experiment that has taken 
a long lime lo work through. The situation with 



Pizza Hut IS new for the local franchise and IPFW, 
so we're being very cautious about what we do." 
said Nancy Hobbs, director of purchasing. "We 
haven't done a good job of informing the students. 
It's hard lo reach them during the summer." 

Subway's proposed opening dale is Sept. 24. A 
one-year contract ivith Splendid Fare and a three- 
year contract wilh Pizza Hut have not been 
signed. Hobbs hopes lo have contracts signed 
from both businesses within the next couple of 
weeks. Splendid Fare may open around the same 
time as Subway, while Pizza Hut should be oper- 
ating in the cafeteria no later than Ihe middle of 
October. Pizza Hut will have a salad bar and 
prices should be similar lo other restaurants 

"1 don't know how studenls were informed, 
but all of the changes were made on the basis o( 
student surveys (distributed last fall). It mdicated 
thai studenls wanted branded foods. It was stu- 
denls who wanted this," said Chancellor Michael 
Wartell. 

Black Collegian Caucus (BCC). a student organ- 
ization, has been selling hot dogs, nachos, pop- 
corn and pop to raise funds. BCC's approximate 
selling limes are Monday through Friday from 11 



a.m. to 2 p.m. in Ihe basement of Kctller. 

"People don't want to eat Subway every day 
and there are long lines. Subway Ls our only com- 
pclition. We sell approximately 150 hot dogs per 
day. Business is steady," said Lisa Peggms, presi- 
dent of the BCC. "Students wonder when Ihey'll 
get food in Walb and some people are disappoint- 
ed. We hope we'll gel a cafeteria by the end of the 

BCC plans to continue selling food until Ihe 
end of the month. Delta Sigma Pi and tJie Pagan 
Club have been selling food in Keltlcr, as well. 

"We encourage student groups to sell food. We 
put clauses in ourconlractsso they could sell food 
for fundraising activities." said Hobbs. 

Subway, located in the basement of Kcltler, has 
been open for three weeks. According to General 
Manager Terry Richardson, it's open 30 hours less 
Ihan traditional stores, but it has had Ihe most 
sales of any store in Fort Wayne. Its business hours 
arc Monday through Thursday from 730 a.m. lo 8 
p.m. and Friday from 7^ a.m. to 5 p.m. In addi- 
tion to subs, it sells egg, sausage, ham and steak 
dell breakfast sandwiches, danish, mudins. milk 
and orange juice. 



Missing lU student featured 
on television 



By Brandon Schwarze. Slaff Writer 

Jill Behrman was a 19--year old lU 

Bloomington freshman majoring in business. On 
Ihe morning of May 31. 2000, 
Behrman woke up and decid- 
ed to go (or a bike ride wearing 
a pair of black riding shorts, a 
dark green helmet and a red 
sleeveless jersey 



.t 9:30 a 



., Behrrr 




I riding her bicycle in the 
area surrounding Harrell Road 
and MoKctt Lane. This was the 
last time anyone saw het. Her 
undamaged bicycle was found Behrrr 
in a com field 10 miles away. 

Following the Behrman disappearance, 
man task force consisting of Bloomington 
detectives, the FBI and an agent of the DNk ' 
formed. Since its creation, Ihe task (orce has con- 
ducted over 2,000 interviews regarding 
Behrman's alleged abduction. 

While investigators remain hopeful, Ihcir suc- 
cess has been limited. The task force may receive 
mom assistance, .is the Behrman story is about lo 






receive more national media attention. 

Lifetime Network's Robert Stack-hosted mys- 
Icry profile show. "Unsolved Mysteries," will 
feature Ihe story on Scpl. 10 at 7 p.m. 

Also.lohnVValsh of "America's Most Wanted" 
fame, will feature the case Sept. 15 at 8 p.m. on 
Fox. Part of this broadcast will be fibned while 
Watsh is on location on Sepl. 11 in Bloomington. 

The two broadcasts will lop off the recent 
media coverage of Behrman's disappearance. 

(&gt;i July 27, anchorman Tom Brokaw. ran an 
inierv'iew ol Behrman's parents Eric and Marilyn 
on "NBC Evening News." NBC also brought 
attention to the story again when "Good 
Morning America's" July 13 episode hosted Ihe 
Behrmans. 

The July 13 airdate coincided wilh a People 
magazine (cahjre story profiling several missmg 
person cases, of which Behrman's was included. 

It has been 13 monlhs since Behrman went (or 
the bike ride. Where and why she was taken and 
most importantly, who took her, remain an 
unsolved mystery 



^ Firefly ^- 

»jgt -^ Coffee House 



3523 % Antfiony &lt;B[vd. 

n. 'Wayne, m468Q5 

219-373-0505 

!Mon-nliurs 6am-10pm 
Tri 6am-llpm 
Sat. 7am-llpm 
Sun. 8am-9pm 



Tu(['Espresso (Bar 

SpeciaCty Trozen (Drin^ 

gourmet (Pastries 

Light &lt;Brea^ast andLuncfi hems 

Live music: Wee^nds 

Loca(Art &lt;E^{iiSite&lt;f 

Quiz 9/ig(it: Mondays 

Open !Mic:'Tuesdkys 

Outdoor Seating 

lifCuQr^ and Inviting Atmosphere 

"9deet me at the TirefCy" 




