Vol. 3, Iasue 12 



December 3, 1971 




Convo to present 
"Twelfth Night" Tues. 



Al 8 p.m. on Tuesdoy, December 7, 
the Nitionol Shakerpeare Company 
will perform "Twalfth Night" at the 
remodeled North Side auditorium. As 
its sub-title, "Or, What You Will," in 
dicates this ploy has something for 
everyone lo enjoy. 

"Twelfth Night" is reporded by mony through sei 
erities as 5hakespeare'5 most perfect "Here Pom 

comedy. Although there is much ven walks 

action, the structure is handled smooth- Countes: 

ly. The main plot centers around the 
mistaken idenlity of the brother-siste 
twins, Sebastian Qn dV'olo, ond thei 
love adventures with Olivio and Orsi 
y-o-good honging pre 



Nsrth Side 500 of the tickets. 

Orsino !s the Duke of lllyria. He 
is h^ndsom^ wealthy, virtuous, intelli- 
gent ond has nviny accomplishments. 
The Duke loves, or thinks he loves, 
Olivia. He demonstrates his lave 



s the countess, 

n earth." 



Third in the Indicia-Purdue Convocations Series is the National Shake- 
rpeore Compony's ■'Twelfth Night" to_ be presented ot 8 p.m. Tuesday 
at North Side High School. Here Sir Andrew Agueehek, Feste, Sir Toby 
Belch, and Maria (Harlan Schneider, Jcmes Lavin, Richard Ronald Beebe 
ond Janel Gladish) make merriment in the lovern while Molvalio (John Linton) 
looks on disapprovingly. 



M-ilvolio, Olivia's guardian, is 
strict and exocting in mothers of moral- 
ity, thojgh he desires the good life he 
scorns as a puritan. He's loyal, ''° "-"■' 
end a good manager but is conceited. 
Much of the humor is at his expense. 

In choosing the Nationol Shakespeare 
Company, the Convocations Committee 
selected what the Son Frorrcisco Exam- 
iner has called, "the ablest profession- 
al Shakespear company louring around 
the country." North Side was selected 
because it can seat 1800, although 



Countess Olivio is beautiful and 
charming. Viola and Sobastian, the 
look-o-likes, odd complexity to th* 

The other characters, and their sub- 
plots, make the romantic convidy what 
it is. tfierc'reclevcr little Maria and 
Sir Toby Belch who ndds-iusto lo the 
ploy. Feste, the'wisc- fool _ adds 

"Twelfth Night," like "Celebration 1 ; 
is free to activity cord holders. Tic- 
kets may be obtained at ihe ticket 
bo:&gt;th downstairs an Friday from 9-10 
a.m. and 1-3 p.m., on Monday from 9-10 
a.m. and 1-4 p.m., ond on Tuesday 
from 10-11 a.m. ana3-4 p.m. 

Tickets are available in the Office 
of Student Services from 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m. when th = y are not available at 
the ticket booth. 



"Celebration" captures life in the real world 

v Dorrell Pornin ' 



by Dorrell Pot 

life in Ihe .a 
able problem 
ing sense, Ir, 
Polish Laboi 



ir thinks 



wants, Ihe theatre to ca| 
v, to meet and react sharply to the real wot 
i of the day, the hour, this very moment. Ir 
-■ most famous avant-garde theatrical group in the w 
story Theatre) under Jeny Grotowski's direction, does th._ 
superbly. This reknown company, working out of the provi 
cial Polish town of Wroclaw, has influenced almost every advanced thea 
company. And, its innovative techniques pervade PIT's current producti 
of "Celebration." opening tonight. 

By implementing these revolutionary melhods in "Celebration," the di 
odor, Larry Life, has stripped theatre as such to its bosic form. Life u 
these radical principles prior to practice call by requiring the actors to 1 
lormwarm-up exercises. Scattering to various areas of ihe stag 
each actor puis his body through silent excercises in order to lend concen- 
tration to the dramatic resources within him. 

The implications of Grotowski touch deeper. If the decorum of acting is 
being explored, the very monner of telling the story is also being scrutin- 
ized. Rilual and gesture grow in importance to levels perhaps greater than 
than the script or language. In the stark place where "Celebration" be- 
ains. the lour crime actors create a ritualized drama lasting about two and 
red and tormented by a 



ill-encompos: 
'Id (the 



ifery. 



1, the f 

&gt;ne half hours. It beg 
nob representing the j 



a dislocated s 



:iety. 



s create a ritualized d 
th an "prion who is 
I, the sometimes savoge, unleashed eneigi 



In this ritual th 
heod, and foci 
caught up in Ihe grip 
tral energy of Wi 



cull, 



I read it in the n 



-are caricature motions of debosed ere 
tath process thot has seemingly becom 
re. As Polemkin (Marty Tieney) puts i 



defy Orphan's (DaleMclnlosh) God to stop them from mess- 
ing with his virginity. Revelers whistle ihe sounds of icy winds as the 
goofy-'oced boy enters the city. Throughout the performance these people 
applaud, they laugh, they sneer ond wa.l and sing. They dress, undress, 
redress, they grovel, light, bite, caress, and cringe al the mention of the 
word "God'. 



To complement the warmup exercises-ondlhe gestures, Larry Life uses 
Grotowski's collaborative method of working-the actors create their own 
character images and structures hand-in-hand with him. In one exercise, 
Orphan, Polemkin, Mr. Rich (David Thompson), Angel (Sharon Gabot) and 
the revelers sat relaxed around tho front sloge area going through a give. 
and-take session of individual and interacting character studios: the per- 
missiveness or over-protection of rich parents, a gay man, a bisexual on the 
make for easy conquers and a young girl wanting to be somebody. 

Grotowski's methods involve all the actors working together. By them- 
selves, in groups, ond in tolol, they create stories of characler history. They 
act out dreams, ihey portray various moods such os sour, funny, seductive 
for this specific purpose. Il lakes time for each actor lo reach common 
characler references, but ihe value of Grotowski's style is the astonishing 
power of dh actor who is actually playing out an image which he himself in- 
troduced and developed. 

it even innovative theatre methods may not over- 
casts' yaulhlulness in presenting an adult musi- 
it, the production might well dwindle to the de- 
ll comedy. One must wait la pick up ihe audience 
reaction tonight before onswers take shape. 

caught in the primal dynamics of the human condition. It is 'abstract' drama, 
which synthesizes the most basic, ond the most sophisticated drives ot me 
human species that forever movei between bestiality ond humanity. 

As the play progresses, things change, Orphon hos lost some of his in- 
nocence,ond his garden to which he hos returned is soon eaten up by Mr. 
Rich's machines. The floshing neon gods of ihe city seem to be all-power- 
ful. Human agony and frustration saturate ihe airland in their shaping of 
behavior, move in the closed circle of thei' own chill and ; n a climactic 
moment move toward breaking of that circle. 

In the end. Orphan and Angel are scared to go back into the real world- 
yet they go as they must«but do they march toward redemption or down into 
rne pit ot extinction proposed for them by their fellow man? The oudrence 
inherits the some question. 



The gravest probler 
:al. IF they dor 



jnd the 



EDJTORJfll 

SAAB should 
be abolished 

The Student Activ.ty Advisory 
Board (SAAB), a student-faculty 
committee (ot checking compos or- 
ganizational budgets ond constitu- 
tions has been the cause of much 
concern omong the students' govern- 
ment lately. 

Student Body President Mark Franke 
sent a memorandum to Dean Ulmer 
approximately one month ago, calling 



for 



andu 



of the board. At the 20th 
meeting of the Student Senote on 
November 17, a resolution was passed 
urging Dean Monges to abolish SAAB 



d delec 

Student Senal 






s to the 



of SAAB are to 1) oppr. 
nizational budgets, 2) 



3) approve supplement 
and 4) oppro 



. As o 



of the- 



ore alroady carried out by the Students' 
Government, the value of SAAB is 
most questionable. 

This year, SAAB has only proved 
to be a hindrance to student affairs, 
as it hos failed to meet for over six 
monlhs. Consequently, five s 



appropriation b 



tiled. 



in limbo and 



n program had ti 



When questioned, Jim Bolinger, 
chairman of SAAB; Dean Manges, ond 
Dean Ulmer each stated that ihe SAAB 
no longer serves a useful purpose. 

elapsed since Fronke's first proposal 
to abolish Ihe board and no action 
hos been taken. 

Franke and Deans Manges, Ulmer, 
and Lanti will meet next week, hope- 
fully with some progressive action 
to remove this regressive red tape- 

The COMMUNICATOR strongly 
urges Dean Manges to act in accor- 
cance with what we believe to be the 
best interest of the student body by 
abolishing the SAAB. 




Bowman promoted 

Dr. Sylvia Bowman, Chairman of 
the Department of Arts and Sciences 
at Indiana -Purdue University at 
Ft. Wayne, wos recently promoted 
to Dean in charge of Indiana Re- 
gional campuses. 



wuhuin ii iii/ii/// 

// I I 1 \ \ \\ \vm i \\^ 

To Oeue'&amp;en-re. is To ■se&gt;y \u\\&amp; u&gt;£ 
flee ftiou to soy vefl «£« mow i «&lt;-&lt;-*' ■ 
KJHftr Hnfvtw", -re -me mpi*j haapems 

To THE- UtrtteLC. HOMftto RUHMIK16 (Jftti, 
ft IVIftu REACTS ftluB ReSRJWbS "To OOrtfVr 

is oTMee Thi»iN him^ejlP omtj ^ gefn.n 

ArMD eesPouns TO The MOjV TK*T H£ 

is ikjside HiMsetP. rte oetftres mphov 

Small ctRewomts r*,o ceie.Beei-nowS 

frli. OffV lowt - if H£H« AO^ -HeflcrH. 

- coeiTA it£&gt;jr 

TrWE. REbioMfti. OftWfts MlNlSTfV 

D&lt;VM M-STTo - CAMPUS MiMSret 

ORTHOCKIN 



ITo the editorl 



Souder's ancestors 

Dear Ed tors: 

Lot us imagine it. Gen. George 
Armstrong 'Goldilocks" Soudl 
living high-ranking officer in the 
United States Army, is determined to 



This week Orthogon is dedicated 
to the introduction of a brand new 
feature column which will be carried 
under its own title in the future. 
"El Rincon Espanol," will 
"The Spanish Corner," will alternote 
with articles in other languages and 



V| || fee 






El estudiante (despues de estacionar su coehe frente al Senado):--? Podrii 

usted cuidormo el coche unos minutas mientras compra cigarillos? 
El senado.:--? No sobe usted que soy senador? 
El estudionte:-- No importo. Parece usted honesto. 

ifcteria: 



Oido en 
—Tengo uno memoria extraordi 
-?Por que lo dices? 
--Porque puedo recordar tadas 

durante seis haras. 
~?Que tedijo' 
■■Ho. No. No. No. No. No. 



Cuentan de u 



islaba, 



que 



ia'lo 



mtaba 



de unos hierbos que cogia. 
?Habra otro {entre si'decia 
ma's pobre y trisle que yo? 
Y euondo el rostro volvioj 
hallo' lo respuesto, viendo 
que iba olro sabia cogiendi 
Lashojosqueelarraio. 
--Calderon de la Barca 



' Te adoro, 



re en cl mundo tan 
sin despedirme siquier 



-Siempre tuya, 
P.D. Te felici 



mlllonei 






LA FIESTA DE NAVIDAD DEL CLUB ESPANO*L 
?Cuando? Miercoles, el 15 de diciembre, a las siete y medio de la noche, 
?Dofide? Centlivre Village, 2827 Westbrook Drive. 
?Paro Quie'nes? Todos. H.isto luego! Alegria, pai y amor 






ident of the United Slates. 
With oil the newsmon from the East 
io cover his exploils ojoinst the heath- 

umphs against the savages and there 
will be o good possibility of his real- 
izing the Presidency. Grim (but over* 
whelmed by the sense of duty), Gen. 
Souder leods his troops to a bloody 



-ithout the 



ol o 



nil 



The newsmen are awed by the military 
genius of Souder and immediately rush 
the details across the hot wires to 
their offices in the Ea;t. 

The finol tally: over two hundred 
dead Indians (ail old men, women and 
children), and not one dead American 
soldier. One observant news reporter 
was said lo have heard Gen. Souder 
remark, "Tiat should loach Ihem to 

Eack in Pennsylvania, Joshua 
son, Sr. is tilling the soil for his 

abhors violence, and upon hearing of 

Gen. Souder's tremendous victory, 

Brother Gibson griovas thai peoplo 



Those of you able to read Spanish 

humor of the quotes and will be inter- 
ested in Ihe informative note. If 
you write Spanish, perhaps you might 
consider submitting your materiol to 
Dr. Fred Jehle of the Language Depart- 
ment for inclusion in "The Spanish 
Corner." 



mstp 



ish bee 



skin 



Imagine again of being in the cen- 
tral highlands of Soulh Vietnam in the 
late 1960's. First lieutenant William 
"Rusty" Souder is determined to 
"follow orders" of his superior offic- 
ers. Tight-lipped and determined, Lt. 
Souder leads his platoon (affectionate- 
ly known as "Buckley's Bool-Liek- 
ers") into o small hamlet named M/ 
Lai 4. There they round up over two 
hundred unai-mcd old men, women and 
children (also a few babies just for 
laughs) and methodically murder them. 

Meanwhile, in the United States of 
America, Brother Jeff Gibson is a non- 
violent droft resister on Ihe grounds 
that war is unheollhy for people and 
other living things. Upon being arrest- 
ed by the ever-present F.B.I, for 
violotion of a conscription low. Broth- 
er Gibson (if found guilty) faces a 
prison term of five to ten years for his 

if Lt. Souder will receive a medal? 

As I see il, if Mr. Souder enjoys 
his freedom so much, why in hell 
doesn't he enlist in ihe armed forces? 
I m sure that he would make a greal 
first lieutenant-maybe eventually he 
could become a general I 
-Joe Culver 

APO says 'thanks' 

Dear Editors: 

Alpha Phi Omega expresses thanks 
for the help received from the admin- 
istration, folculty and students dur- 
ing the recent Red-Cross blood drive. 
Special thanks goes to all donors who 
made this blood drive highly success- 
ful. 

Paul E. Laviolette Jr., 
Chairman Alpha Phi O-.i -go Blood 
.Drive 

December 3, 1971 



In Pirg a statewide reality 



by Alan McKibben 

The Indiana Public Interest Re- 

20 colleges and universities through- 
out the state of Indiono. There is a 
strong fervor on each eompus as a 
hard core of students undertakes the 
task of educating respective sludents 
about Iho InPirg plan. InPirg is o 
research organisation which w ; ll be 
staffed by professionals, su:h as law- 
yers, and researchers, and run by 
sluden's. It is modeled after Rolph 
Nader's Pirg organization in Washing- 
ton D.C. The Indiana group is attempt- 
ing to roise ih: needed support from 
students in order to institute its fund- 
ing system of voluntary student tax- 
ation. There are about 15 states at 
this time attempting to set up Pirg 
groups. Ohio, Connecticut, Washing- 
ton, Minnesota, Oiegon and Iowa ol- 
roody hove their groups in operation 
and are undertaking research projects 
in the area of public housing, race 
and sex discrimination, public health 
care, and consumer protection. 

A stotewide meeting was held Nov. 
21 at Butler University, ottended by 
our local chapter and about 100 other 
sludents from throughout the state. 
Publicity, petitioning strategies, and 
Funding were discussed in detail. A 
similar meeting will be held this week- 
end, Dec. 5, at Purdue University in 
Lafayette. 

Izaak Walton 
selects officers 

As of Wednesday the officers and 
committee members of the Student 
Alpha Chapter, Izaak Walton League 
are: president, Ko-en Griggs; vice 
president, Patti Mock; treasurer, 
Laurie Murphy; antilitter and beautifi- 
cation, Lyn Stangland and Mark Souder; 
films, Sharon Alt; soil, Sharon Alt; 
environmental cd., Griggs, Mack, 

Stongland, Alt, Steve Spoltmon ond 
Mary Jane Leffers; resolutions, Carol 
Forss. Faculty advisors ore P.U., 
Sheldon Gottlieb and I.U., Jeanette 
Clausen. 



WANT ADS 
Work Wonders! 




YWIMtoWAMfADIi 



fh. 743-0M1 m 743-111! 
rev t*p*™ rwvtp^pof* 

TwJoupiAiGAam 



The local chapter is just gelling 
under way. Several orgoniza(ioiol 
meetings hive been held. Comm ttecs 
in the area of funding, student ond 
faculty education, and publicity have 
been set up. Credit courses are be- 
ing initiated fo- those who wish to 
work for InPirg ond receive credit 
next semester. Anybody wishing to 
participate in InPirg or desiring more 
information should conloct the Stu- 
dents" Government Office inG4. 



Speech and 
Debate Club 
competes 

Five members o? the Indiono-Purdue 
Speech and Debate Club, Lii 
Schevtchuk, John Juday, Debbie 
Boggs Diane Booker, and Obie 
Booker, represented the campus at the 
Inlercollegigale Legislative Assemb- 
ly held Saturday Nov. 20 ot DePauw 
University. Competing against stu- 
dents from ill over the midwest in a 
mock congress dealing with questions 
of crime and punishmentj Liz wan a 
lirst ploce speaking aword, while Oaie 

Assembly mojority leader. 

Debbie's proposed legislation on 
reforms in the juvenile court system 
was adopted by the legislature, as 
were Diane's bill on the reduction of 
prisoner isolotion and Liz's proposal 
for reforms in the juvenile correc- 
tional system. 

Divided into two parties, consisting 
of the Yongs (Liberals) and (he Yings 
(Conservatives) the delegates formed 
ommittes to study various aspects of 
the crime and punishment question. 
Afler morning sessions in which the 
committees finalized prices of legis- 
lation, the delegotes met lor heated 

feat or pass the bills 




Student response to the APO hi 



Circle K plans French parly scheduled 



service activities 

Circle K fraternity is currently 
sponsoring o food raffle to collect 
food for Miss Virginia Schrantz's 
Mission House in the inner city. As 
of today the club will collect all 
donations of nonpcrishable food at 
the coatroom- Tickets will be given 
in return for donations of nonperish- 
able food worth 25c or more. 

On December 16, several prizes 

All students are encouraged to get 
involved and bring donolions. 

Circle K also reminds the student 
body that it will be hosting the WOWO 
Penny Pilch this year although due 
to the demands of inflation two bath- 
tubs will be filled. 



The second French porly for all 
studonts and foculty, ond all Frenel 
speaking peoplo in Fort Way.ie is si 
eduled for tomorrow at the home of I 
Gerri Weiss, 4015 Wedgewjcd Drive 
7:30 p.m. 



it, singing 
of French Christmas carols, and loss 
of delicious Franch foodfif you bring 
it). Mile Morlhe Rosenfeld will talk 
on "L'Am'orique vue par les Fran- 
cois" in English and in French. 

For further information call Mrs. 
Gerri Weiss 485-8088 or Mrs.Ren'ee 
Reprogle 745-2997. 







d on Campus by: 

DAVID FINKELSTEIN &amp; ASSOCIATES 

3206 Port Wayne Naticnal Bank Blrjfl. 

Fort Wayne. Indiana 46802 

Totephone 742-0368 




1:30-3:45-5:50-8:00-10-00 



December 3, 1971 




'Problems of Physically Handicap ped' 

Workshop topic announced 



Posse retains football title 



This Sunday, Dec. 5, Radio Work- 
shop will feature a program on 'The 
Problems of the Physically Mono. . 
capped.' Guests w.ill include two 
Indiona-Purdue students, Brock Able, 
student senator and founder of the 
Physically Disabled Student Organ- 
ization, ond Terry Hoffner, president 
participating as guest will be Gary 

staff. All three share the problems 
of being confined to a wheelchair. 

The program will focus on the 
numerous difficulties of trans- 
portation and communication thot 
hondicapped students endure in daily 
life. Attention will be directed to the 
lack of physical and public facilities 
for the handicapped in the Fort 

SUB plans 
Dean's Ball 

On Saturday Dec. 11, the Student 

Union Board will agoin sponsor the 

ring the Deans of their respective 



Thanks^ing week-end marked the 
ond of the flag football season and 
the Posse wrapped up the champion- 
ship with an impressive "undefeated" 

The Nads, who were disappointed 
with their win by forfeit oyer the 
Baovers, are the Powder bowl 
champions this year. 

Lost weekend's excitement devel- 
oped after -the two Division One 
teams, the Posse ond Aschbacher, 

Two teoms, the Train and Hoehn Roy. 

The first weekend of the double 
elimination playoff saw the Posse 
level the Troin 28-0 and Aschbacher 
blast Hoehn-Roy 19-0. .Next the 
winners battled and the Passe pulled 
out a 12-6 victory in overtime. The 
laser's game was not quite as close 
a* Hoehn-floy blanked the Train 25-0. 

Hoehn-Roy and Aschbacher, each 
with one loss, again faced one another 
to determine which squad would tackle 
the Posse in the championship game. 
Aschbacher soundly bounced H-R 
36-6 and advanced to the final. 

The play of the Division Two teams 
was not representative of their reg- 
ular seoson action. Both teoms, 
being pass oriented, were faced with 
strong cold winds which caused the 
ball to float atound quite a bit on 
pass plays. When the pass was on 
the mark the ends often dropped the 
ball. 

However, the Division One teams 
suffered the same playing conditions 
ond still managed to blast Division 
Two. Both Division One teams were 
repealers from last year and their past 
experience had much to do wilh their 
winning efforts. 

The Posse, 2-0 in tournament play, 
and Aschbacher, 2-1, were paired in 
the championship game. Aschbacher 
scored first when Rick Knight rolled 
o/ound the left end for a TD. The 
extro point attempt foiled. 

The Posse then come back to the 
gome when Tom Beaver hit Dove 
Boggs in the right flat for a touchdown. 
The Posse then took the lead 7-6 as 



again went to the air and hit 



appeored to be onother Aschbacher 
touchdown. Neil Kobi blasted the 
Posse line and crossed the gaol line 
untouched. However, one of Asch- 
bacher's linemen wos penalized and 
the score was nullified. 

Tom Neumann intercepted an Asch- 
bacher pass (ust after the beginning 
of the second holt, which set up the 
final Posse scoring effort. 

Dave Boggs was called on first 
and advanced the ball to the Asch- 
bacher 25 yard line on a burst around 
"the right end. Beaver then went into 
the air and found Dave Quanrlt all 
alone In the end-zone for the score. 
Extra point pass attempt ta Ouandt 
was knocked oway and the Posse 
lead 13-6. 

Ron Lester intercepted an Asch- 
bacher pass deep in his home territory 
and the Posse again put their offense 
to work. But the Aschbacher defense 
stiffened and the Posse wos forced to 
punt on fourth down. 

Rick Knight returned the Posse 
punt 50 yards which set up the final 
scoring play for Aschbacher. Neil 
Kobi.blasted off the left tackle for 
o TD. 

Aschbocher's quorterbock, Marty 
Farrel, then went to the oir and Brad 
Hall hauled in what appeared ta be 
the tieing point. The conversion was 
nullified, however ^ Aschbacher 
had a lineman downfield on the pass. 
The game ended 13-12. 

The Nads then prepared to do bottle 
with the Beavers. But the latter 
squod failed to show enough players 
for the game and the Nods were de- 
clared the chomps by fofeit. 

The gals were treated to a game 
with the Posse ond beat them 13-12- 
The gals dazzled the guys with fantas- 
tic moves and runs of T.L.C. 

The gome ended with a last second 
touchdown by Dave Boggs who had 
been loaned to the girls by the Posse. 

Everyone then raced home to see 
Broadway Joe and the N.Y. Jets on 
the boob tube. 



The 






.:l and 



ot 9 p.m. Entertainment will be by ihe 
Blue Impressions and refreshments 

The device will be free to activity 
card holders and $2-00 per couple, 
otherwise. Students and faculty can 
obtain their tickets at the door. 



Wayne c 

The program will be moderated by 
John Borton, a student in Radio 
Practicum. Radio Workshop is 
presented on WPTH-FM Sunday at 
11 P.m. 

French prof 
writes book 

A book on a little known French 
critic and novelist, written by Dr. 
Marthe Rosenfeld, assistant professor 
ot French, Indiaia University at Fort 
Wayne, will be published late this 
year by the Philosophical Library, 
New York. The book is entitled 
"E.lward Jaloux: Tho Evolution of a 
Novelist," and is written for the lay- 
man as well as the scholar. 

Jaloux, who died in 1949, was not 
widely known, but he miived omong 
the greet literary figures of his day, 
including Proust and Gide. Better 

and believed that art wos the only ab- 

evcrything else perishes. 

Dr. Rosenfeld was born in Antwerp, 
Belgium. She received hor A.B. degree 
at Hunter College, Ii9r M.A. from Col- 
umbia University and her Ph.D. from 
New York University. She taught at 
Wilson Collcgo and Boston University 
before pining the faculty °' l-U. here 
in 1970. 



Tuskers play two games 



by Al Christoules 

On the opening tip, the gome be- 
tween the Tuskers and Tech showed 
to be o very aggressive, hard hitting 
game. There was only two to four 
points separating the two teams as 
the lead see-sawed back and forth. 

With about five minutes left in the 
first half Tech pulled into a nine 
point lead. Twice the Tuckers pulled 
-to within two but handling errors 
turned over the ball three consecu- 
tive times. The first half ended with 
Tech leading 51-42- 

IU-PU came out in somewhat ineffec 
tive zone that enabled Tech's for- 
wards to collect a total of 34 of the 
51 paints scored. Also Stroud, Putt, 
and Love collected 4 fouls each. The 
Tuskers hit only 10 of 18 freethro-vs 
for55fo the first half. 

In the second half, IU-PU tried a 
man to man defense but foul trouble 
mode it more than ineffective. With- 
out the services o' Kip Bailey, due to 
the objections of Tech's coach on his 
transfer eligibility, there was a defin- 
ite weak spot in our defensive. 

High point man fo- the Tuskers was 
Gene Devbrow with 19. Jacquay and 



Love picked up 17 and 12 points res- 
pectively. 

Saturday night was entirely differ- 
ent as Bailey got back into the lineup, 
the defensive stiffened, and five men 
got into double figures. Goad re- 
bounding by Bailey saw IU-PU con- 
trol the boards with help from Mirk 
Putt and surprise player John Powell 
who collected 20 points as a substi- 
tute. 

ing accounted Bailey who collected 19 
points. High point man for the game 
was Gory Trump whose outside shoot- 
ing wos a high point in the game. 

Love and Cowden both chipped in 
ten apiece as the Tuskers ended the 
game with o 40 point spread. 



Ft. Wayne Firefighters 
annual New Year's dance. 
Continuous music. Dick 
Quigley, dance and jazz, 
and The Eperon dance 
and rock. 9-1 at the 
Coliseum, S6.00 a couple. 




1,2, and 3 bedroom apartments 
with all utilities paid, fully car- 
peted, beautiful low income housing, 
models now open, just married cou- 
ples, security guards. 1320 Green 
St., 456-2151 



