
—Quote of 
the Week- 



South African speaks on crime Page 3 

Food for thought Page 2 



Lady 'Dons headed for tournament Page 4 



i 



The Communicator 



VOL. XXII, ISSUE 1 



Indian,! UniwrsiU -I'urdiK' University at Fort Wa 



November 8, 1990 



i No- 1 in G minor. 



\l,,&gt;.cn, I Ihr rr, i.,l is „|&gt;. r, t 



Infographs 



PEACE WATCH 

hi il'. in • " &lt; tt M 



Faculty recital 

The music department' 



Jgistration is Tuesday. 



Women engineers 
to meet 



Campus security 
teleconference 




Minority and environmental issues 

IU officers meet 



Purdue forms hazard committees 
in response to new regulations 



i Administration regulation. 



Heated senate session 
yields $350 pizza bill 



SSioj|S"HS Impeachment petitioned 






LiitaU'lt..'. .mil I 



cedures to the department head: I" 'hi- w.ike u\ Hills 

piriXr.-.'"'.'''^' di T .,iiN,cHl li''i'l "' ""&lt;*■''' N-,-.i:-l.itiof"i. . 

monitor cmnpluiir-.- v.Hh police .. H....I.T. vie- prcdent 



itatives they began lo collcul signatures I 
ely we the student body asking it to I 



"We have enoui'h .ij'.ii.injh' 
Tuesday We arc still ai 



wo, Id Im.,1: i.- h. !h.- :■.,!!. -vs " 



Tutorial program needs money: 
Will senate or administration pay? 



! Building, Room 104. This 
n will provide an oppor- 



Journalism Day 

opportunity Day will be held! 



The IPFW exeeuliv. 



Variety of items collect 
dust at 'lost and found' 



spoon A receptionist e 



Physical Plant monthly. Consequc 

anyilnriLi with identification on it, 
attempt lo notify the owner. 

us ,. box completely filled with 






• police office in the Physi 



Opinion 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



llns miserable rock. 



Toxic Dumping 

Exportation of garbage 
abuses Third World 

Recently, the City of Brotherly Love (Philadelphia) tried to 
dump 14,000 tons of toxic ash on 1 1 ■*-- shores of Haiti. The captain 
of the crud boat told the Haitians ii was lertili/er. The Haitians 
didn't buy it and made them scoop the goop back up. 

An American lobbyist approached the people of the Marshall 
Islands with a plan to "augment " their land mass with 10 
percent of the west coast's garbage. When the Islanders ex- 
pressed reservations .ihnui llns plan, the lobbyist said not to 
come crying to him when the Greenhouse Effect causes their 
islands to flood. Evidently. I he residents nl (he Marshall Islands 
decided it was a risk worth taking. 

Back in the 70s, on the Puerto Itican islands of Penuelas and 
Guayanilla, petrochemical dumping was slopped because of the 
dramatic rise in cancer cases among the populace. When the 
companies pulled out, they left the people not only dying but 
unemployed. 

Lately, various waste incineration companies have ap- 
proached these same islands. "Hey, as long as you guys i 
doing anything 



In Burma it seems they've got a civil war going 
regime needs some fast cash. Their teakwood 
just taking up space, so they decided to mow them down and 
sell the teak. And who is one of the principal buyers? Uncle 
Sam, at a blue-light special. 

At least the operators of the U.S. Scientific Station Palmer 
have the right idea: When they dump their raw sewage, heavy 
metals and lab chemicals in the sea, they can do it with a clear 
conscience. They can't give cancer to ice. 

All of these little anecdotes were gleaned from recent issues 
of Greenpeace magazine. While the Greenpeace group may be 
considered biased and radical hy some, they nevertheless go to 
great pains to verily then stones and cite their sources. But 
even if they didn't, very few of us would doubt them. Western 
corporate crassness toward the Third World is well known, and 
American corporations are foremost among them. They are still 
offering ' 

Lately, the natives have been wising up, 
dom is a poor substitute for an empty belly. Immediate 

allow themselves to 
corporations. As everyone knows, the 
pimps get all the money and their girls get nothing but needle 

Realistically speaking, groups like Greenpeace cannot and 
should not hope to completely eliminate monoliths like DuPont 
or Union Carbide. For all their transgressions, world 
, and they have 




Letters to the Editor 

Vice presidents call for Snyder's impeachment 




The Student 
Students' Government 

Felix Moxter and his Procedures Committee has been tussling 
with the problem of how to write SAB into the Students' Gov- 
i problems implied 
with including SAB is that the senate is a body designed to 
spend money while SAB should be designed to make money. 

5 given a decent starting budget of $75,00 
the results would be amazing. The activities board 
mediately move to add facilities (hat would expand its input on 
campus like adding a Ticket ron ottice. sponsoring small con- 
ventions by off-campus groups that would appeal to the student 
population and expanding its base of free events around cam- 
pus. For instance, SAB could sponsor a computer software expo 



nity. Also, the 

board would be able to lock into part of the speaking tours of 
world renowned experts on everything from humor in the '90s to 
world relations with a new emerging Eastern Europe. 

SAB could also sponsor smaller events like movie and concert 
paraphernalia sales, plant sales, book sales and any other type 
of sale that would appeal to IPFW or the community at large. 

Eventually, the student board would be able to move into the 
realm of sponsoring musical acts, on campus and in venues like 
the Coliseum. 

Along with these obvious benefits to campus life, there would 
be improvements in other areas as well. Instead of getting a 
budget every year, SAB could potentially make enough money 
to pay a percentage of its earnings back to the university each 
year in the form of rent. All the other remaining monies would 
be carried over to the next year for its new beginning budget. 

longer be administered by volunteers and 

of the student senate; instead, it would be- 

the campus work-study program and hire students 

merits paying them as employees. This would 

*o learn "real world" company work 

i the campus. 

dent senate and students not .dMidted with .my campus organ- 
izations would oversee the SAB operation. 

To cut SAB free from the reins or the student senate would 
actually improve student life, provide employment and make 
the Student Activities Board more of an asset to IPFW and the 
Fort Wayne community as well. It is a valuable proposal that 
should be taken seriously by the senate and administration. 



elected 



• having t 



Letters Policy 

Every week The Communicator reserves space on this page 

given to letters addressing matters of 

Letters must include the author's'name. signature, address 
and telephone number. Please identify yourself as an area 
resident or IPFW student laculty. or staff. Only the author's 
name will be published with the tetter. Names will he with 
held only for extraordinary reasons. The deadline for letters 

! ' Ml« I II e \ I .1 iO,.| „! Hu ■ . : :..,,.'', ,!,„.. 

I lie editorial board reserves the right to reject letters. 

Letters should be sent typewritten to The Communicator 
office, Walb Memorial Union Suite 215, or mailed to The 
Communicator, Walb Memorial Union Suite 215 2101 
Coliseum Blvd., Fort Wavne, Ind. 46805. 



'A little food for thought' 
about student senate 



; lost by the pizza Boslon Tc a Party were particularly 



Commentary {^ESdiiS? 



&gt; straighten out th,- parkin,; -itu., Iu ,,n, 



■ agreed immediately on 






Features 



THE COMMUNICATOR 




Sports 











THESES 
CONTAINS 


^^RESUMEsV 


lllllll 


' SPELL CHECKED!! GRAPHICS 


ONE DAY OR OVERNIGHT SERVICE AVAILABLE ALL 7 DAYS 
STUDENT &amp; FACULTY DISCOUNT VITH ADEQUATE LEAD-TIME 

rAi i iifl*wi*«wa*rafli7/,7 0072 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Tournament approaches 



The Night. The Musle. Tlic Romance. 

The 
Two 

roa° f 

Matchmaker 

Call 489-1731 






Saginaw Valley proved 



maw Valley proved inctfec 
Lady Volleydons did not i 



They "This % 



■I he CiMliinls 



JOB OPPORTUNITIES 



CLERICAL PERSON ■ Evenings and weekends. $5.00-$6.i 

answering phones, daia eniry. 10-4-O-5. 

TECHNICAL ASSISTANT • 25 hours ■ flexible. Setting up 
equipmenl (or remote broadcasting, running controls for 
radio/board, doing some on-air announcing, knowledge of fi 
and/or engineering not necessary. 10-4-1-4, 



Student, come in and c 



1° 



..-loriri |&gt;I,H&lt;- Ashluild '^ti-.i ovenii 
■ I....K Vollrvdnns C.MI.' 9-0) fa&lt; 



jUSl 




si^4_ 


■KJ^' »5^*^^M 


a.* 


*ivcW| 




- . 7^&amp;$$y&gt; 




jS* 



Sport Shorts 



Soccer closes season 



"Star Trash. Celebrity 



&gt; .k'li T\li.'i wilh 4 i-o.ib-. ;nif| 1 
1 .1 IoIm! «&gt;( 'i [mini- Sn imil in 
hehind l\U-i w..- .Mike 



Rushing, will greatly 



SAVE MONEY OIM YOUR NEXT COMPUTER WHEN YOU 
BUY THIS ONE, THE ZENITH 
DATA SYSTEMS Z-286 LP+. 




The Zenith Data Systems Z-286 LP Plus 



HOW? Simple. Only the Z-286 LP+ is upgradable from an 80286 to an 80386 SX processor. 
In English, this means you get a computer today that meets your needs and a computer that 
can be upgraded to a more powerful one in the future when YOU need it (and have the money). 
It's an affordable way to protect your computing investment. 





SPECIFICATIONS 


Processor: 


80286, upgradable to 80386 SX 


Hard Disk: 


20 or 40 MB 


Memory: 


1 MB RAM, expandable to 8 MB 


Ports: 


2 serial, 1 parallel (printer) 


Mouse: 


Microsoft Mouse 


Video: 


VGA 


Software: 


MS-DOS, Windows 3.0 


Monitor: 


FTM 14" VGA Color 



ZENITH 

data systems 

Groupe Bull 



PRICING 

ZMF-286-X2 286 LP+, Model 20, with 20 MB hard disk, 
FTM color monitor. 

ONLY: $1599.00 

ZMF-286-XS 286 LP+, Model 40, with 40 MB hard disk, 
FTM color monitor. 

ONLY: $1799.00 



Contact: 
Steve Sofhauser 

Education Acct. Mgr. 
1-800-258-2422 

Voice Mail Bx. 1441 



