Indiana U n i v e r s i t i' • P i u i 



Fort Way n e 



it ^ ^ Wednesday, April IM,20ii&lt;i 

The Communicator 



■ EXCLUSIVE 

INSIDE: Danny Epple site 



down with The Communicator 
for an indepth interview 
PAGE A3 



Volume 36, Issue 28 



Singer/songwriter makes 
tour stop in Muncie 
PAGE A6 



rjpfvucommunicator.org 



■ ISO Banquet 

International Student 
Organization holds 16th 



12 Pages, 1 Section, Free 



Most controversial election ever' 



Only 336 out of 
approximately 12,000 
students voted 



agree, but the extent to which the censor the candid, itcs. [( is there to 
controversy goes is where opinions protect the candidates from slander." 
deviate. The First Amendment protects 

The question arose in this eleelinn speech in the United States to the 
defamatory or 
onsidered fighting 

MORE INSIDE: 



whether or not 
has the right to 
speech before 









The recently held ll'St.A elections 
were full of drama and disputes. 
Divergence of opinions o 1 






The 



u iprv students. An exclusive interview brought to the 

I ydi.i llnlliger, who 



An exclusive interview brought 

with Danny Epple delves rorefmm of peopi. 

into the intimacies of his 

everyday life. 



Epple, a felon, 
*for vice presiden 
programming. 



campaign sin;;. in submitted 
rejected by, the election board was 
" a joke playing off 



controversial election at IPFW ever." 
foe Kiszka, a member o! the election 
board said, while fidgeting in his chair 
Many participants in the election 



beyond what has ever been taken 

before," she said, and added that am not a crook 

every campaign slogan had to be "pre- Richard Nixon'; 

approved." election board's reasoning lor rejecting 

Kiszka, who played a part in the slogan was that it consisted 

enforcing the rule of no negative slanderous material, 
campaigning, disagreed mar kedh wiih "We were never told we could l 



" I he rule i i 



ofpre-censorship. 

It's 



► ELECTIONS: Page A3 



•r-1 2,000 ( 

-8,000 

-4,000 
o ~- 


-300 / TV 




Number of votes 
Danny Epple 

■ Lydia Holliger 

■ Corine Swanson 

■ Adams 

■ Stroik 



Soaking up the New Year 



i Armory on Cook 
ment on Saturday 
y in fort Wayne, 
itersperscd with community members of 
iverse backgrounds, ushered in a new year 
n the lunar calendar. 

The New Year Water Festival, also known 
s Thingyan, is celebrated in many Southeast 
s including Burma (Myanman, 



attendees with a sprinkle ut water for good 
luck for the next year. 

The water used at the festival, traditionally 
the result of soaking leaves in water from a 
Htayaw tree, is significant tor the Burmese. 
The purpose of dowsing friends and lamik 

"You are cleaning up your spirii and 
washing out your misdeeds." Seiu Htway, an 
eight year member ol the l-nn Wayne Burmese 
community, said. 

Celebrating the arrival of the year 1368, 
those in attendance loaind themselves staring 
at a stage with a colorful &lt; unain of red. blue, 
green, purple and brown. Not only did the 
incense from the front of the room brighten 
the senses, bin the smell of food from the 
kitchen, with garlic, edantro ,uk\ tamarind, 




allowed for 






i.' buds ill the 



Lori Howard, a former IPFW student, 
attended because ul an invitation her husband 
received. She thought it was important to 
participate in multicultural activities. 

"We live in a diverse i\ orld. " she said, "and 
so we need to be diversified." 

The Service began with a pr.iyei in Buddha 
Young girls bnwed helure a Uuildha sculpture 
on stage ilrat was lit op l&gt;\ i he candles lined up 
in front of it. As a man led the &lt; elebranis in 



Photo by Eugene Harding / news ■ ipb'.'ci 



BURMA: A dancer of the Burmese Water Festival looks backstage during a 
performance Saturday. 

Haven, will puli out of Fort Wayne in a year 
and a half. 

Rev. Keller explained that many Burmese 
are employed by Nishakaw.i and lace losing 
(heir jobs or moving with the company to its 
new locations. 

"Think about starting your own 
' i f-'orl Wayne," he implored 



: Burmese Culture. 

At one point a man was invited up by the 

Master ut I eremony to speak. He was Reverend 
lames Keller Willi words of encouragement he 
entreated ihe Burmese community to stay 
strung and united despite the announcement 
Standard, a factory in New 



[tun 



The i 



of I 



► WATER FESTIVAL: Page A2 




Fling into Spring 



a Belford / news@ipfwcommunicator 



FREEDOM: SAB and IPSGA will be giving away tickets to 
Saturday's game against the undefeated Sioux Falls. 



On Tuesday, die Honor Socieiy 
held an obstacle course in order to 
llepresent your Nerd!" in honor of 
Hevenge of the Nerds" day. The 
cihstacle course was humorously on 
the grassy knoll and cost a dollar 

|e lor Ilosk and t haticcllor Wartcl 

were both scheduled m take part in 
spinning around in circles, hitting 
Fling. The IPSGA and the Studcni piiiatas and racing around on 
Activities Hoard bring this annual comically under-sized tricycle *"" 

The giant event 
exciting events ti 

final weeks of class. 
week, a different m 
wilt pervade the day, 



By Andrew C.Hoover 

aclnover«lpfwMiiununicaior.oig 



By now you have seen the blue 
shirts willi John Ucliishi's iconic 
"college." The shirts mark the 

beginning of il'FVVs .'nut. 'spring 



bring IPFW On Wednesday, Grease Carnival 

minify for the Day, the Red Cross will be on campus 
Every day i 



► SPRING FLING: Page A3 



jpsrii 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Wain Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne. IN 46805 



Newsroom: (260) 481 -6584 
Fax:(260)481-6045 
Advertising Dept: (260) 481-6683 
E-mail: contact@lpfwcommunicator.org 



Simple 
problems 



Gas prices could reach 
critical levels litis summer 



By Kira Schowe 



BEB 



What do these numbers have in common: 
1.89, 2.20, 2.67 and 2,98? These are all gas 
prices. Over the past year, prices have raised 
an average of 30 cents a gallon and rumor has 

it that prices will reach S5 by mid si 



production of new wells, but there is a delay 
of getting approval of where to dig. This delay 
creates a shortage of oil causing industries lo 
hike up the prices. The high gasoline prices 
have had only a modest impact on the driving 
hahiisof Americans. 

"People are wealthier, they've been enticed 
into buying homes further from work and the 
auto industry has been enticing them into 
buying very inefficient vehicles," said Philip 
K. Verleger, an oil consultant. 



\lmlliel 







the fact MTBE 

detected ^^" in ground i 

Gasoline withoutMTBEisexpensive 

to produce and requires refineries to change 

their production and distribution of gasoline. 

"Prices have further been driven up by 
two recent government-mandated fuel 
reformulations and a requirement that corn- 
based ethanol be added to some ^^^ 
gasoline. Those slops make die Wj 
process of refining gasoline more KTV 
expensive," Trilby Lundberg, ^SM 
the publisher of the Landbcrg ^^^ 
Survey, said. 

Speculation about Iran's nuclear program 
is also causing sharp rises in gas prices. This is 
especially going to be an issue as the summer 
progresses. As the Iran nuclear program 






the United 

Tibargoes 
s possible, and this 
speculated to cause 

Furthermore, 
n Africa, Chad 



:inue to threaten li 

it gouTiiNient. Ihis unsteady region 






Africa will only c 

as the Sudan conflicts c&lt; 

rebellions in Chad keep tl 



roil off the world 



What are Americans going to do if gas does 
reach $5 a gallon? Carpooling is always an 
option but when asking around a number of 

► GAS: PageA2 



'ui.'l: .■■.■■ 

The Communicator 



pjjj 



am 




Spicing up ISO banquet 



Brlanna Belford 
Editor-in-Chief 

bbdIfortWplwcommunlcator.org 

Jamie Miller 

Managing Editor 

jmilW#lpfwcommunlca1or.cHg 

Una Mabbltt 

Advertising Manager 

lmabWtt©lpfwcommurtcatCM*B 

Amy Ounnuck 

Copy Editor 

adunnucii0lpfwcofnmunlc8tor.orB 

Eugene Harding 

Photo Editor 

Nick West 

Sports Editor 

nwABttftprwcammunlcator.org 

Dan Vance 

A&amp;E Editor 

Andres Ponte 

Design Editor 

apomeefctweommunlcntor.oro 

Andrew C. Hoover 

News Editor 

ahoovortftpfwcommuilcirior^g 

Publisher 
Doris Reynolds 



Newsroom / Editor 

(260)481-6584 

Advertising 

(260)481-6583 



nn a 



The 16th annual International Student 
Organization Banquet is going to be held 
on April 22 at 5 p.m. in the VValb ballroom. 
This annual event is the highlight of the 
ISO calendar year, and this year is no 

This year, the banquet will have a theme 
focus on Nigeria, bringing to life the bright 
and colorful culture of this African nation. 
The banquet will feature many exciting 
performances, displays and dancing all 
featuring the nation of Nigeria and her 
rich history and culture. 

Performances for the banquet include 
presentations about China and the Global 
Christian Fellowshipis tentatively expected 
to perform a piano piece The ISO will be 
having a fashion show that will highlight 
Nigeria but include many European, 
African and Asian styles and nations. The 
group "Friends of the 3rd World" will be at 
the event to present artifacts from around 
the globe. 

Of course, the ISO Banquet is famous 
for its food, and this year the food will 
be from Nigeria, keeping l 




s Ochieng. the ISO vice preside 
explained that Nigerian food is a mix 
vegetarian and meat dishes that can*b 
little spicy. 



a variety of ways. 

The banquet will also have many 
vegetables from Nigeria in a variety of 
dishes that feature the flavors of ginger and 

coriander spice, all of which are pounded 
instead of ground in traditional Nigerian 



Wayne. The group offers many services to 
new immigrants including clothing, meals 
and various other outreach programs. 

The group will be having elections 
soon, and Ochieng pointed out that only 
two officers are returning for the 2006-07 
year, leaving many exciting 



, coriander is actually 
thought to increase the appetite, according 
to tlic McCormick spice company. 

The ISO is a community-service group 



oencour.igi' "liters 
including his mvn cousin. 

Ochieng claims tha 
students enjoy IPFW because it is "laid 
back" with "many benefits from the 
allegiance to 1U and PU." 

He added, "The atmosphere and the 
location are very good, it is a very nice 
place." 

Theo 



by Nick Mboya / news@ipfwcommunicator.org 
The banquet will also be a reward 
ceremony in which the ISO honors 
those who have helped the international 
community here in Fort Wayne, including 
Linda Simon of IPFW's student life, the 
IPFW IPSGA, the African Immigrant 
Ministry and many others. 

The ISO, Black Collegiate Caucus, 
IPSGA and DiversEquality sponsor the 
16th Annual ISO Banquet. 

The ISO has received help in the past 
from the Bangladesh and Burmese student 
groups. 



Thee 



sfrom 



n April 22 



es it easy for 

e here and still get the 1U 



■ Walb Union Ballroom. The e 
free to IPFW students with ID and children 
under 12. 

It is $3 for children over 1 2 and $8 for all 
other guests. 

Guests are encouraged to come 



Campu 


5 ^ 


Calend 


for April 20-26, 2006 


20 University Religious Forum: 


and under and IPFW students. Limited 


"America's Homeless Children," WU 114, 


number oftickets availabe in KT 104. 


noon-1 :15 p.m. For information, call 


For information, call 16674. 


16992 






Concert: Guitar Ensemble. NF Recital 


Athletic Event: Softball vs. Valparaiso, 


Hall. 7.30 p.m. For information, call 


3 p.m. For information, call 16643, 


16714. 


Education Literary Event: WU 


Fort Wayne Collegiate Ball: Memorial 


Ballroom, 4-6 p.m. For information. 


Coliseum, 7:30-11:30 p.m. For 


tall 16807. 


information, call 419-204-8914; for 


20/20 Vision Lecture: "Oil Shockwave." 


tic els. ca 6 




Theatre: Story Theatre, WT, 8 p.m. 


call 16888. 


For tickets, call 16555. 


Movie and Discussion: Crash. Lamar 


23 Concert: IP1-W Universih Singcrsand 


Dixon, moderator; CM 159, 7 p.m. For 


Symphonic Wind Ensemble; Plymouth 


information, call 16608. 


Congregational Church, 2:30 p.m. 




Forinformation. call 16714. 


21 International Information Day: WU. 




9 a.m.-l p.m. For information, call 16494 


Phi Kappa Phi Spring Initiation: SB 




168, 2 p.m. For information, call 1651 1. 


Biology Senior Seminar: Donald 




Cunningham. Holly Roivc. and Keith 


24 Philosophy Club: KT 246, noon-1 p.m. 


Derickson, presenters; SB 185. noon. 


For information, call 16366. 


For information, call 16305. 






Eating Disorder Support Group: 


Athletic Events: Women's Tennis vs. 


WU 234. 6.30-8 30 p.m. lor information, 


Texas A&amp;M Corpus Christi. 10 a.m .; 


call 16647ore-mailtillapau@ipfvv.edu. 


vs Northern Colorado, 3 p.m For 






Concert: IPFW Community Orchestra. 




Student Concerto and Aria Competition 


Scnoir B.F.A. Exhibition Opening 


winners; NF Recital Hall, 7:30 p.m. 


Reception: Kachmann Gallery, 1301 


For information, call 16714 


Lafayette St., 6-9 p.m.; exhibition 




continues through May 6. For 


25 Spanish Table: jVcn a conversar v 


information, call 16709. 


comer con nostras! WI ' Cafeteria, noon; 




bringasaes lunch 1 or information, call 


Concert: Choral Union and Chamber 


16689 or e-mail confortm@ipfVr-.edu. 


Singers, NF Recital Hall. 7:30 p.m. 




For information, call 16714. 


ACCS Workshop: Job Search and 




Workplace Issues lor 1 (,B1 A Students, 


Theatre: Story Theatre, WT. 8 p.m. 


WUG21, noon-1 p.m. RSVP to 16138. 


For tickets, call 16555 






26 High Tea at the Ft. Wayne Museum of 


Institute for Human Rights 


Art: 5-7 p.m. In celebration of the new 


Conference: Ft Wayne Chamber of 


B.S. degree in interior design; honored 


Commerce Building, also April 22. 


guests are the 2006 interior design 


Free for IPFW students. For information, 


graduates. Museum galleries open. 


call 16364, 






College Ring Ceremony: WU 222. 


22 Athletic Event: Women's Tennis vs. 


6-7 p.m. For information, call 16807. 


Texas Pan American, 10 a.m. For 




information, call 16643. 


IPFW Dinner Series: "Murder Mystery 




Meal." Holiday Inn Fort Wayne, 


Friendship and Unity Banquet: WU 


6:30 p.m for tickets, call 757-270-0900 


Ballroom. 5-9 p.m.; free for children 12 


or 16562. 


This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



unique response ( ,ime .ibuui riding a hike .10 
miles, buying .&lt; dorse or si.ining a taxi service 
that charges extreme prices. 

On a more logical approach, there arc several 
keep your 



y junk in your trunk. 



It isn't a fact that gas prices will reach $5 e 
gallon, but economists do predict a rise of at 
least -in cents So this summer when you want tc 
drive somewhere, take the cheap way: yourowr 




dessert made 
Little girl: 
around playfully 



The food ci 
dies, seafood, fried 
vegetables and a 
ith tapioca. 



; children played with 
water, guns and sprayed each 
other with water. Inside on 
a screen, set up to the left of 
the stage, Burmese television 



With a Burmese population 
of around 1 ,500 in Fort Wayne, 
it makes one of the largest 
Burmese populations in the 
United States. 

Being a yearly event, one 
can expect the celebration to 
be repeated with enthusiasm 
in April of next year. Sein 
Htway enjoys the chance for 
the community to get together. 
"This is important for all 
Burmese people," she said with 
,i smile on her face. 



PLEASE RECYCLE THIS PAPER 




by Eugene Harding I news@ipfwcommunlcator.org 



BURMA: Dancers perform Saturday at the National Guard Armory, which V 
rented by the Fort Wayne Burmese Family New Year, Water Festival. 



News Briefs 






International 
Information Day 
highlights IPFW 



The Office of [ 
Programs, together with the 
ILCS, will be sponsoring an 
International Information Day 
in the Walb Union on April 21 
From 9 to 1pm. The 



highlight the study of foreign 
languages, the International 
Studies Certificate, study 
abroad programs and the 



IPFWAmeriCorp 
honored by Governor 



The IPFW AmeriCorps and 
Indiana Reading Corps Program 
Coordinator Kyaw Soe won 
the 2006 Governor's National 
Service of Volunteerism Award 
on April 10. The award was 
announced at the Governor's 
Conference on Service and 
Volunteerism in Indianapolis. 



community here in Indiana. 

Mr. Soe is a father of two and 

dedicated over 2,68ft hours of 

o the AmeriCorps 



in teaching 1 2-\ children how to 
read. Soe is also responsible 
for founding the Burmese 
Children Literacy Program in 
2003 and starting the annual 
literacy fair, Aung San Suu Kyi 



l June 18 and has been 
recognized by both Senator 
John McCain and Congressman 
Mark Souder. 

To learn more about Soe and 
about Aung San Suu Kyi Literacy 
Fair, go to www.ircfotwayne.6k. 



Lisa Grier honored 



Lisa Grier is the winner of 
the Phi Kappa Phi Award of 
Excellence this year. She is a 
senior political science student 
here at IPFW. Grier is one of 
40 students who received the 
Phi Kappa Phi Award, which is 



Student Scholar and has been 
a Chancellor Scholar for her 
entire career here at IPFW. She 



graduates in May and intends 
to pursue a law degree. 

Phi Kappa Phi is the oldest 
and largest all-discipline 
academic honor society. It 
was established in 1897 to 

to engage the community of 
scholars in service to others.'' 
Congrats to Lisa Grier for her 



Destroyed but not defeated 

■ Sneaking glimpses hereand there, Danny Epple finally speaks 



By Brianna Belford 



Eyes closed tight ti^hiin^ li.u k the tears, sophomore Danny 
Epple Minsk's in ( ompose llu- senlent i' he only wishes words 
could impress. Willi ,i heavy sigh he looks out the window, 
silent tears saying so much more than the sobs he's been 
choking on since UigtiM when he drove drunk and caused an 
accident that killed IPEW protestor lohn Manzer. 
, Epple spent " 



i led wh.it i teeloo ,i daily basis," 
With his cup ol black coffee and a copy of Ernest 
' " j Sea." Epple t 



; from 



tlity with a dose of s 



: light 






i iull-i 



■ lion- 



who i 



in the student government. Epple has been appointed t 
numerous student government committees and has been a 
representative ol IPEW at tonlcrenccs lor student activities 
Not even his involvement in his communications studies and 
student government can eclipse, however, the events that 
transpired in August. 

"There's not a day that goes by that I don't have a feeling 
in my stomach alioui what happened." said Epple staring into 
his hands as il searching lor the answers to the questions- lell 
unspoken. "There's not a day that goes by that 1 don't think 
about it. And it's going in he with me lor the rest of my life." 

And although I pple miileistands he is potentially lacing 
a large amount ol time behind bars when he is sentenced in 
May. projecting a positive attitude is what helps hint get by 
each day. 

"For the first lew months I fell very helpless." I pple retails. 
"I felt that there was no hope for a normal lite. I low was I going 
to continue on knowing that 1 was involved in such a horrible 

Surprisingly to I pple ,md his lamily, it was the support l" 



in the morning and thinks, 'Hey, 

something is going to happen today, "' said Epple. "Nobody 
even really thinks about that. And when it does happen, your 
whole lite i hatigcs and vou have a real soul awakening." 

Safe inside his ll'Sl.A hoodie, I pple shrinks into his chair 
and rucks back and lot ill as il rein in,; ihe night all over again. 
Every insult I'nmi peers, the harsh letters published in the local 
papers or the words coming straight I mm those who loved 
professor Man/er as ilu \ call tor 1 pple to step down from his 
elected position as the Vice President ol Programming ior the 
'(l(&gt;- '1)7 school year, rush ashore in wage a battle with I pple's 
thoughts Swallowing il all. he opens bis eyes once again, 

"There's a line in there," said Epple, referring to 
lleminingwav's Ihe Old Man and the Sea" till says, 'a man 
can be destroyed but not defeated.' And it's true. Vou can rip 
everything from me lot what has happened hut as long as I still 
i make a difference." 






UOIh I 









sent letters of encouragement that gave I pple the 
to continue his good works 

"(The support) gave mi 
and what's happened has happened,"" said Epple. "1 can't 
change ihe pasi hut I can change the future." 

In hopes of preventing hi in re aicldeols like the one Epple 
was involved in. he hopes to speak to high school students in 
the community and share his story. 

"This isn't about me,' said I pple It's about the community. 
The must positive thing I can do in my life is to accept what 
has happened and just try to he the best person 1 can be." 

Going one step further. I pple attended and was certified 
in the T.EPs (Training Intervention Procedures) seminar that 
resident assistants at IPEW are required to go to. 1P1-W police 
office Jeffery Davis instructed Epple. 

"I just want to make sure that nobody else is in the same 
position that 1 am," said Epple "Something's going to come 
up sometime in m\ tuture and I've learned those skills then 
maybe I'll be trained better to intervene." 

His thoughts, consumed hv the past, help Epple utilize his 
time in the present to better the future. 

"There's nothing good thai will come from having an 
apathetic attitude towards anything." said Epple. 

On any given Monday or Eriday alicrimon one can find 
Epple ai the Eon Wayne Rest ue Mission helping in the kitchen. 
He also is curreoiK talking in die cimrdinatcr of SA.DD 
(Students Against Drunk Dmingi in hopes that bis story can 
help their message. 

"Life is a process ami in this process 1 would like to improve 




by Eugene Harding/ newsfripfweommunicalororg 



talk about Danny E pple's past, and in fact Danov opetih addressed As far as addressing t: 

e of his running," said Shay freedom of speech, campaigning 



several s 

Stroik, incumbent preside! 
' n opposed tt 



of wireless Internet on campus 
campaign posters could be 
placed, as well as whether or 
not candidates could speak 
about their opponents at 
IPFW. 

An e-mail from the Election 
Board, regarding designated 
campaign sites, was sent out 
to all candidates running for 
an office. Included in it was a 
warning saying, "The 1 

be ( 



i this election dealing with 



i ideas for change. 

.' encouraged that negative campaigning was not 

this campus," said Stroik. "1 saw this as a way to 

ents from other students No good can come from 

availability negative campaigning because then the race goes from Here's 

created a dilemma as to where why you should vote lor me' to Here's wh\ you shouldn't vote for 

my opponent' and I think that it is an 

unattractive element to politics." 

"I personally knOW all Of the Candidates Williamson proposes using paper 

ballots as welt as electronic voting. 

that ran for Office this year and I WOUld He also accentuates the importance 



of students being 



i the use of mass 
advertising through 



like to believe that they would not use it 

to their advantage," said Stroik. "If you ^^S^"" W0Uld 

cannot win on your own merits then are 

you really satisfied with your win?" 



ballots siuiult, 



■™,lv. 



placed on the Election I 
! these "I think through the experience from 

these elections everyone sees faults. 

, removed posters from the There will be improvements," he said. 

! placed there by people in the Nick Adams Corinncswansun. candidate loi \ it c president ol .progr. tig 

\ confrontation between Adams anil Kiszka occurred and current Student Hotly President Lamar Dixon failed to reply 
t trie Senate room at the IPSGA office i 
lection Board's removal of the posters. 
Kiszka accused Adams ol shoving him, while Adams laid claim thai occurred. 
that Kiszka knocked him into the Senate table. After a polk 



regulations are iolluwed " 

Joe Kiszka. acting i 
campus that \ 
campaign. 



s is currently iii the process of analyzing the problei 



officer was called to the scene and a report given, nocharge^ 
filed by either of the parties. 

"I personally know all of the candidates that tan for office this 
year and 1 would like to believe that they would not use it to their 
advantage," said Stroik. "If you cannot win on your own merits 
then are you really satisfied with your win?" 

Not only was the i ainpaigning portion of the elections raising 
eyebrows, but the accessibility ui the means of voting was also 
an issue. Regarding this year's implementation ol online voting, 
Aaron Williamson, candidate and next year's vice president of 
finance said, "The link to vote was very difficult to see - very 
discrete." 

Using application software, which has been utilized this past 
year by faculty to do surveys for students, the voting system was 
set up by IT Services. 

Bob Kostrubanic, Director of IT Services, said there were many 
factors that played into the problems with the system, including 
portal problems and issues regarding Daylight Saving Time. "It 
has been awhile since we have seen so many things go wrong on 
a particular service," he said, and added that mtscommunicalion 
between those involve J played ,i large part in the mishaps. 

This year there were only lit, people who voted out of a Student 
population of around lj.otltl. Compared to the over 1,300 people 
that voted last year, (he turnout was dismal. 

Some attribute the lack ol representation of the student body to 
the change from paper ha IE as to online voting, while others say il 
has to do with the students themselves. 

"The only excuse ili.it people could have used for not voting 
was ignorance or apathy," Kiszka said. 

Adams, upon commenting on whether or not the student body 
was represented with the votes said. "As far as numbers? No. As far 
as who won? Maybe. Maybe not. There is no way to find out." 



expected and tl 



s,ofci 



" kosuiikioii. 



Cheaper Housing 

Amenities include: Working together weekly 

_ n — ^.„j !„,„,„„, ln exchange lor housing 



idmuchmorc... $50 Monthly 

ALL UTILITIES PROVIDED 



student body, who then give 
the tickets to the Red Cross 
when they donate blood. The 
group with 



and $50. 

That night, the Senior 
Stampede will be from 7 to 9 
in the Walb Ballroom, and is 
open to all students regardless 
of class standing. The Senior 
Stampede is an entertaining 
event with free food sponsored 
by the Alumni Association to 
show love for all current and 
tuture I PEW Alum. 

The biggest events of the 
Spt ing I ling are the "Last Bash 
BBQ" on Thursday and the 
all-day events for Saturday. 
On Thursday, 



send off to the 2005-06 si 

The BBQ will also feature 
many exciting up-and-coming 
local bands, and lasts from 9 
a.m. until 4 p.m., when the 
food is finished being served. 
The BBQ kicks things off at 9 

here in October, and includes 

Defiantly Gary. Unlikely Alibi. 
Roleo and EDS, San Cofa and 
the comedian AJ Goodwin. 

The Canton Renaissance 
Club will also be doing 
historical recreations during 
the BBQ. 

On Saturday, the Spring 
Fling ends with a bang. The 
SAB is featuring the Kid's 
Carnival that will include the 
Human Services Duck Pond, 
the exciting Gcoscience Club 



"Paint your Pet Rock" and 
other fun events. The carnival 
will delight with "zoot-suit 
entertainer" Dave Evans as he 
performs magic and balloon 



the i Rivers Dance Collective 
Janbe Ensemble. The Janbe 
Ensemble is a group of si 









who play traditional MalinkC 
music, which is drum music 
from the Western Africa areas 
of Guinea and Mali. 

Saturday 

students 

rt Wayne 

the Colisi 
first round of the n 
Volleyball 



the carnival on Saturday. 

Shay Stroik, the new IPSGA 
Student, Body President, 
stated that Freedom tickets 
are always buy one, get one 
free for IPEW students. 

The final event for Spring 
IPSCA's Inaugural 



formal dance i 
eludes many other 
the Fort Wayne 



S15 for those 



YOUR AD HERE 

call 481-6583 
ask for Lana Mabbitt 



Maaama 



33— 



jitly have available posirit 
INSIDE SALES ASSOCIATES 

il Experience a Plus Appfy ill person C 

email resume 



comprenftw@comcast.net 



C mputer 

ill E.OOLw.m BlvJ. ■ RENAISSANCE 



TheCimmunkaior 



J.ntwMftrManacjigEcttoi 



Podium 



Editorials • Letters 



America in need of a national language 



Staff Column 



Bui should we have only oik 1 national 
language or should we Ii.ul' iwti- Should l.ngllsli 
and Spanish be the two national languages 



itional language is English. 
I would say English is the most a 
language ol the United States. So, why v 
English be the national language? It 



I think thai one 
national lunguage i 
diversity. We have 



cause we have so much 
many languages already 



effectively. 

I know mure ihan 'III percent ul people in the 
Unjied Stales already sjieak I nglish. But then 
there is that oilier small pcreenl who does not 
speak I nglish. I think thai d we made a national 
language, ihan dial small percent of people 
would, hopefully, learn English. 



Yes, there are nations thai have more then 
one nalional language. Take, for example, 
Belgium and India Belgium has three nalional 
languages S.i die children learn the three 
national languages as well as English. 

For example, India has 10 official languages 
Now I would imagine thai situation would lead 
lei a chaotic mess, I think thai there would be 
many problems with the government trying to 
direct the nation's business. 

I think if the United States had more then 
one national language it could It 



my they are having sonic- problem 
i. I think diat we might have 
c with people complaining. 
ie Spanish as one of the nation: 
ve would have lo name otht 
a national language a 



about Herman?' What abnui I'olislr' What about 
French?" 

I think the easie-t ihingfor us to do is to name 
! nglish, and only I nglish, the nalional language'. 
Musi people who come to Amenta already know 
English. Then ihere are those who don't learn 
English. 

I think that if someone comes to live in the 
United States then he or she should leam Ihe 
a language spoken in the i 



the system by just memorizing d 

the test they have t.o lake. I think if they do that 

then they are just hurling themselves. 

1 say they are honing themselves because 
they are not giving ihcmselves ihe opportunity 
to try to learn English. 

The way that looks to me is that we should 
accommodate for them not being able lo speak 
the language. 

Now, I'm noi against immigrants or anything, 
but 1 don't sec how I hey are making their lives 
easier by inn learning the common language of 
the United Slates 1 understand that many come 
over lo escape persecutions or just lo get a better 
lifestyle. 



though, with bavin; 



If Iv 

should at least already ki 
language or be willing i 
language. 



I i'ltl'llll !■■ 



r Spain 1 

) speak the 



learn the national 



Another's misery a source 
of comedy in life and movies 



Screaming from the Left 



On Thursday, some young tapM all ions, mi I tiding myself, went 
to Toco Bell for this sin ailed 'fourth Meal' which is in and of itself 
another column ... but anyway, we were at laco Bell al ! a.m. or 
so, gelling ready io drive home, when we saw a moiorcycle on 
the wrong side of the road with no headlights moving in sluggish 
figure -eights. 

By ihe time we pulled mm a parking lot on the corner of Lima 
and something, by die Meijei, a young female officer had pulled 
over the obviously drunk motorcyclist and was apprehending 



Ins eyes ami basit ally I ef using to cooperate with ihe cop. 

She had his arm twisied ami was trying m get him to lie down 
on his stomach hut he just subbed and subbed until she finally 
threatened, loudly, to break his arm. 

Our howls of laughter were getting louder, so we rolled up the 
windows for fear ot insulting die good ulTmr doing her job. 

A more active citi/en helped her get him io ihe ground. 

By this lime, more cops arrived including another incredibly 
hoi female cop, and was taking the man into the car. 

He was crying and sobbing and unable to walk straight al all 
and when the police tried io put him in the cruiser, he would not 



whole moment was. We. able-bodied young men. walched lhai 

laughing, sipping sodas and watching with wide eyes and 
scorn ... we did nothing to help. 

I his was entertainment for us. Watching this man's life basically 
be ruined by his own sheer stupidity was entertainment. 

How very Roman. 

Other than ihe realization lhai Fort Wayne employs some 
attractive young officers, and that il we commit a crime to do it 
al night to meet one, what did we take away from this moment? 
Probably nothing. 

It was enieriainmeni on par with anything i would walch on 
MTV or CBS. Is there something wrong with this? 



gyouofthesiory. It ma" 

laugh; hopefully you might chuckle. 

I assure you, it was a funny scene. 

No one got hurt, thankfully, so was anything wrong about 
watching this drunken moron suffer? 

The increase in movies of torture and abuse as a form of 
entertainment, namely in such films as "Hostel," "Wolf Creek" and 
now "Hard Candy " nu which a teenage girl tortures a man's penis 
with a scalpel) we have lo ask ourselves if misery and pain should 
be entertainment. 

red 



nuiltled in die c 



■ w.iii hing this drunk get arrested and knowing how 
s any different lhan simulated violence? Well, yeah. 

e very different 



it I realized how strange thai question il there really is a difference v 




'War on Drugs'? Try 'War on Sanity' 



Have A Beard 



"Most marijuana smokers are Negroes, Hispanics, 
jazz musicians and entertainers. Their satanic music 
is driven by marijuana, and marijuana smoking by 
white women makes them want to seek sexual 
relations with Negroes, entertainers and others." 



A of hysterical Bircher today: he freely linked ihe 
dread drug marihuana io communism, racial miscegenation, and 
a host of other fanciful bogeymen. 

The funny thing is. ibis ranting lunatic has had more influence 
on tins nation's drug policy dun any oilier single person. 

Anslinger became Assistant Commissioner of Prohibition in 
1929. He served in (hat post only until 1930. when extensive 
corruption and scandal in the Bureau of Prohibition forced a 
widespread reorganization. 

Harry J. Anslinger. who had never completed high school, was 
rescued from the shake up by his lather in law (Andrew Mellon, 
Secretary of the Treasury], who appointed him as head of the 
newly-created federal bureau of Narcotics. 

Anslinger went on lo hold ihis posi for U years, until his racist 
rhetoric and aggressive atlempts to surpress academic writings at 
Indiana University bet ame embarrassing lo his superiors. 

In that time, though, he treated our modern prohibition through 
mpaign of sensationalism, deception, and sidestepping die 



Iso. interestingly enough, home 
ir less toxic than aspirin or Tylenol. 

Cannabis, probably the most harmless 
.is never killed anybody; us toxicity is si 
npossible io overdose while smoking pot. 

It has similarly never been shown ic 
ememia, homicidal rage, or any of the ott 
n laid at its feet. 



substances which 



It* 



i 1937 ii 



research potential, was banned ii 









the very least several pages; hut space is limned, and 111 do what 

lean. 

What the situation comes down to, in the end, is that ihe w&lt; 
on drugs is an expensive, destructive, and unsuccessful effort tod 
away with something that isn'l even a problem. 

Schedule I is the group of substances which ii is illegal ( 
posess in any quantity for a 
cops have declared the conti 



MDMA! Tcslasv"]. is my favorite example. Starling in the mid- 
1970s psychotherapists experimented with the drug and luund il 
to have enormous therapeutic polentiai. 

The drug drew little public notice until its recreational use 
became popular in clubs in the early I'«in ; it was banned in short 
order by the DEA via emergency m hcduling in 1985. 

However, at that time there was no evidence of any kind that 
Ml &gt;M.\ is harmful. 

The First such study was not conducted until several years 
1 lhai study was subsequently debunked, and 



people were taking il recrealionally. 

I see this as an indicaiion of what ihe war on drugs is really 
all about; it has nothing to do with actual medical danger, and 
everything to do with people having fun in ways that make 
authority figures uncomfortable. 

Alcohol, in contrast to the above examples, kills people every 
day and is perfectly legal. 

Many, many people have smoked pot over the years and so are 
familiar with what a big deal it isn't. 

One would think lhai ihis would make painting pot as Devil 
Weed a fairly tough sell, and that does appear to be borne out by 
the increasingly ridiculous nature of government propaganda on 
the topic. 

If you haven't been paying attention to the commercials where 
(he sioners are shouting each other for no reason, maybe you 
should have a look over at freevibe.com for a nice, hearty laugh 



followed by a depression alter reali/mg thai vou paid for the damn 
dung ihrotigh taxation. 

Of course, prohibition itself has many harmful effecis which 
outweigh the hannliil effects of the actual drugs. 

It is directly because of the war on drugs that our fourth 
amendment proiections have been steadily and aggressively 
eroded; in a society in which the posessiun ol common, easily- 
concealable objects is a crime, every person becomes a suspect 
and is treated as such by ihe police. 

Our prison pojiulat ion. yvbii h has been rising at an alarming rale 

forsome linn- now, is d isiurhingly full of non- violent drug offenders 

serving ridiculously long mandatory minimum senlences. 

howed much We spend S20 billion a year on Ihe ONDCP alone. 

ng associated I hat doesni include money spent at the state and local level, 

aining inflated prison populations and the 



k Souder, people who have 
iow systematically denied 



ruination of a 

Thanks in large pan io our own M 
had previous iroutile with drugs arc 
higher education. And for what? Toci 

frankly wouldn't be much of a problem if we only dealt with il 
sensibly. 

Would the junkie stealing car stereos to pay for a Put still need 
to do that if prohibit ion ywren'i driving up die price? Would the 
kid collapsing at a party slid be in trouble if there were quality 
slandards in place to ensure that what he swallowed was actually 

MDMA and not a njihei amine!' Would dealers still sell to kids if 

they could lose then license lor doing SO? 

You can't ban an activiiy that so many people enjoy and don't 
perceive as harmful; it just doesn't work. 

We've spent buckets of money and man-hours combatting 
recreational drug use, and failed. Our efforts haven't even made 



irivmg black market with all the gang 
. thai are always associated with black 
ibing happened when we banned 
ai some point we became incapable 



markets. Exactly die • 
al. oho] back in tin: JO's 
ul admitting that we've I 

It's tempting lo say (hat our drug policy has been like Don 
Quixote tilting ai windmills, but in fact it has more in common 
with a man banging his face into a brick wall. 



and again just isn'l the end of (he world. 






I*j ^ iffp 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free 
excercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the 
people peacably to assemble, and to petition the government for redress of grievances. 




Let he without sin 

Staff Editorial 



Last August, an 1PFW student left a 
restaurant after drinking and decided 
to drive home. He made it safely home. 
Unfortunately another 1PFW student 
made the same shameful choice but 
with a much different outcome. On 
August 8 Danny Epple. then an active 
member in student government and an 
honor student drove drunk and crashed 
into 1PFW professor John Manzer's 
corvette, killing him. 

Epple has been charged and will be 
sentenced in May for his crime. Since the 
accident occurred, Epple has continued 
his work in the student government and 
his classes. No letters to the editor 
calling for his removal from the senate. 
No letters demanding he be expelled 

Candidates running for his elected 
position were not forbidden to speak 
of Epple's past • they chose not to, 
which speaks highly of their character. 
Some complaining about Epple and the 
election have mentioned in the news 
sources that they knew nothing of 
Epple's past. 

Those students, perhaps, have not 
*ie media ;m&lt;l then 



iovri.i|;e si 



last August. 

What Danny Epple did that night in 
August was stupid and led to a tragedy 
he and his family, along with all of those 
who loved professor Manzcr, will deal 
with for the rest of their lives. But does 
the accident that Epple caused make him 
any less of a person, an IPFW student as 
those who drink and drive but Just have 
yet to cause an accident like the one that 
occurred last August? 

Epple is no different than those of 
you on campus who may not even have 
a DUI on your record but who left the 
bar one night and just happened to 
make it home safely. 

Or, perhaps, he Is different? He 
volunteers, he's an honor student and 
he's trying to use the biggest mistake 
of his life to educated the public and 
reduce the number of drunk drivers 
on the road by talking to high school 
students and sharing his story. 

If you were among the 336 students 
who voted, by all means, state your 
frustrations. For the other 11,000 plus 
of you - vote next year and make a 
difference. 



Letters to the Editor 

Uniformed voters cause of Epple election 



I'm absolutely appalled that Daniel Epple was 

elected to student government. He has no right 
to take any position, let alone job, on campus. 
He is an absolute disgrace to our campus and 
what we stand for. He should be punished, nol 
rewarded for his i Inn ik driungt i mvict ion in kill- 
ing John Manzer. a campus professor. 

The only reason he managed to get elected 
whs hecattse most students either didn't know of 
ii nr because student government wasn't allowed 
to talk about it. 

Regardless if he's remorseful of his actions, he 
should lie removed from ihe position and may- 



be expelled from the university. I sincerely hope 

th.it i.. in i pus oiliu.iK will investigate his actions 
and take the appropriate actions in response. 



Remove Epple from Student Government 



In the spring semester of 2005, I had the 
privilege of heme, a student in ECON E420. The 
History of Economic Thought taught by John 
Manzer. Manzer and I had many discussions 
concerning class topics. 

We disagreed more often than we agreed, but 

ir debates were always respecth " 



government. This student has disrespected 
the faculty, student body and student 
government. This student has shown himself 
absent of common decency. I his student is no 

I suggest that, to protect the integrity of the 
university. I urge the judicial court to expel the 
confessed killer Irmii [he student government. 



Within weeks of the end of that semester, 
Manzcr wasdead An If I W student has admitted 
killing him in a court of law. The student is 
awaiting sentencing. 

This student has recently been stealthily 
elected to a position within the student 



References to Foster offensive, misleading 



1 recently picked up a copy of the IPFW 
( omniunicatot. Wednesday. April x JOllh, ,md 
was extremely surprise.] when I read your article 
about Foster for Sheriff. 

The Allen County sheriff race has been the 
most widely covered issue thus far with the local 
media. 

In the article, it is claimed that you have no 
idea who foster is. 

If you were any type of a concerned citizen 
who takes his politics seriously (let alone a 
decent reporter], you would have read about 
him in hnth local newspapers anil seen coverage 
on the local news networks. 

Furthermore, I believe you have an obligation 
as a writer or reporter to provide l.u isanil inlorm 
your readers. You may be aware that what is 
written in an article may be the only thing a 
person who reads your article will remember. 

"A card carrying member of NAMBLA, or a 
Klansman, a strong believer in zero -tolerance 
drug law enforcement and a serial rapist 1 ' are 
links you intimated with Foster. I find all of 
these descriptions to be offensive and extremely 
misleading to the uninformed reader. I can 
assure you thai luster is in no way associated 
with any of these. 



Amilhet 



t of Foster's gendei 






affiliations Both the NAMBLA and Klansman 

You made no reference to the female gender. 
You apparently drew some conclusion even as 
an uninformed citizen. In addition, had you 
simply looked at the picture you published 



It could have been such a better article. 
Ihe signs are there to remind people who is 
running for an office and it should lead some to 
investigate more. 

Defaming, misleading or labeling a person 
in the press by an uniformed reporter is totally 
unprolessional. As for your experience with 
local elections " you imply that you are informed 
and knowledgeable i misleading in your readers). 
You must have a very narrow focus not to have 
heard of foster. What is it that you arc learning 
at IPFW? It doesn't seem to be responsible 
reporting. 

With all that said, 1 believe you owe Mike 
Foster an apology for labeling him with such 
offensive relationships. 



Podium page is strictly 

the staff as a whole. 




University represented by Student Government 



I am writing to express my utter disbelief 
at the university in allowing Danny Epple to 
run for an office in the student government 
after pleading guilty to drunk driving and 
killing professor Manzer, thereby making him 
a convicted felon, awaiting sentencing for up 
to 20 years in prison. 

Although Danny Epple had every legal nghi 
to run for office, he obviously has no sense of 
right and wrong by running for office at the 
very university that Manzer served for over 20 
years. This is a slap in the face to the Manzcr 
family. Danny Epple has thumbed his nose at 
the justice system as he obviously feels that he 
will get out of his sentence as his position in 
[he student government is to Start in May, the 
month that he is to be sentenced. 



What I 
a convicted felon t 
students? 

What kind of students are being educated 
to vote for such a person, who has no sense of 
integrity or decency? 

This is an outrage and the student 
government and the university should he 
ashamed and embarrassed lh.it such a tiling 
h c happened - that a convicted felon is now 
representing the university, 



Response to Post-abortion Syndrome debate 



e you'll agree, 
It's all pre to me, 

And the post is a theory a 



The costly price of being 
famous and wealthy 



Pasquali's Ponderings 






With the loss of privacy and crazed, stalker 
fans, one understands what they have to deal 
with, but the money seems to always overpower 
the faults. Why would it nol? Our society is 

based on money; your sou. il standing depends 

With a female star like Britney Spears, her 
every move is followed and fans refuse to let go 
of the idea that she is some almighty, 
person. 



You now have a slight idea at what a complete 
waste of space and time this guy is. K-Fcd and 
Britney recently had a child as well (yeah, that 
statement I made in a previous column about 
stupid people not breeding, that applies here). 

On April I . their baby boy reportedly fell from 



All I know is that if 
brought this guy home t 
my parents, they woul 
laugh and say good day t 



folks. 



s guy is pretty Is 



hi-ht)'.li i i ii ami in-ui-.i-ti ins bead '"liripoH'dk. 

of the nanny after 

married something on the high chair snapped. 

ow him. This poor kid is already going to be 

struggling for brain cells thanks 

to his dad, but now that the kid Is 

falling on his head, he has no hope 

really Can't Wait of graduating high school. Lucky 



But I know that you 



'cause people are 
always askin' me / 
when's the release 
date? / Well maybe 



for the parents, there appears t 
be no immediate damage, and no 
charges are being filed. 

Despite the fall appearing to 
be an accident, this is not the 
first time DCFS has been called 

Spears' home. In February, 



Britney v 



Britney probably should 
have thought about this 
decision before actually 
going through with it, but 
she is not so bright either; 
that is why she is a pop Star. 
K-led's job history consists 
of pizza delivery guy and 
back-up dancer. 

Sweet, he is going 
nowhere in life, and probably 
does not have a brain inside 
that ugly head of his. 

Oh no, I forgot to mention 
that K-Fed is supposedly 
a rapper as well. 1 say 
supposedly because his first 
song that leaked onto the 
biggest load of garbage I havi 

The first song was called i ai 
Despite the beautiful grammar 
the songs blows, big time. 1 truly 
listening to it, because it will give , . . . 
laugh. they have a child that will be brought up with 

lust to give you a little taste, the opening all die money and bad rap albums in the world, 
wise consists of "But I know that you really and never have to worry about a thing in his 
can't wait 'cause people are always askin' me life, except which wife beater to wear to the 
/ when's the release date? / Well maybe baby store that day. 

you can wait and see. / Until then, all these The kid does not even have a chance at 

Pavarottis following me." using any of the brain cells that he has left. 



driving with her 
four-month-old boy sitting 
lap. Does anyone else feel 

baby vou can wait bad for Ihis kid? ' think he would 

' * have a better chance growing up 
i , ■ ■_»:! «!.„„ in a cave with bears than these two 

and see. / Until then, jnbred dummies _ 

„ .» _ „. With all the attention that 

all these Pavarottis ce i e brities receive, their smallest 

mistakes are brought to the 

following me. spotlight for everyone else to 

see. It is not hard to look at K- 

Fed and Spears and wonder what 

the gutter they came out of, not having a full brain 









e you a good 



an your boy K- 
Fed here, I dislike Britney just as much, but it is 
too easy to make fun of her. 

The unfortunate part of this whole thing is 



i Dashboard Confessional 

Band will perform next 
Monday at the Memorial 



Cebolla's offers 
students tasty 
food, unique 
atmosphere 

Restaurant Review 



Upon firs! sight, i hi- unejnal ( i'lnill,i's Mexican 
Grill i&gt;ii lernhill Avenue niighl surprise you. 
Not all restaurants have lililc tin Mexican baud 
members greeting them frimi ihc front lawn. 

The building Itself appears much i " " 



n tin- hack lut In the Iron! 



; plays constantly it 
vift at both of my \ 



cilantm. Nut tun mild, its flavor has a bold taste 
without brine, overwhelming. 

The restaurant is unique in what it offers, 
pleasing hnth those who ale looking lor authentic 

The menu niters generous portions, espci ially 
in its appetizers l\vo kinds ol nachos are offered 
on the appetizer menu. The traditional narhos 
de la casa, or house nai hos. ollt-rs .ill the beans, 
cheese, lettuce, tomato and sour cream thai one 

would expect frtii it hos. as well as your choice 

of beef or chicken. 

The nachos fajitas are unique. Vour choice 
of steak or chicken is added to the fried chips, 
clri/v.led in a creamy queso dip and topped with 
grilled given peppers, onions and tomatoes 
hipped wiili ,1 cool guacainulc made fresh, its 
texture and tasie pleases the fajila lover in a 



i ut into four pieces Is filled with a i reality white 
cheese and stuffed with steak or chicken, diced 
tomatoes, unions and green peppers. Upon 
first bit, the greasy yet delicious taste of the 
meat and cheese along with the vegetables made 
me order il twice, Garnished with sour cream 
and guacamole, the basket of chips on your 
table continues tn sen-ice itself and is refilled 
as needed After the chips and nachos. the hie, 
portions of the i|iics,idilla demand a doggy hag. 

For dessert, 1 tried a traditional Mexican treat. 
flan. 

Its texture is a mix between a pudding and a 
jelly, and is glazed with a rich caramel lopping 
Easy on the stomach, its creamy and light texiure 
cools the palate. 

In addition to the wonderful food, Cebolla's 
Mexican (.rill offered us exemplary service- 
Never was my drink below 1 1. ill full and a friendly 
staff brought out the food within 10 minutes of 

Thedirmer hui ins. i lii ill- husi, rth, in 1 1 inch nine 
e lunch specials an- i niiMderahly cheaper 



than Ihe n 

Fast ! 



, great atilhc 






v three locations in Fort Wayne, Cebolla's 

Mexican t.ril! is qnii kl\ becoming a fort Wayne 
favorite. I must admit 1 have become a regular 
patron. 



A&amp;E 



Arts &amp; Entertainment 



1 



Theatre" PAGE A8 




Sequel on 'Ice' shines, helps understanding 



Movie Review 

By Brianna Belford 



I laughed, 1 cried and then I 
went home and thanked God for 
giving the guidan 



tiger I k-nisl can '.amis 
John I eguizamo). A r 

animals are engaging 

w.iiet park fun when 
.i doomsday prophet 
i.l a vulture lells the 



an animated film lull ol talking 
animals, which (or the most part 
are now extinct, emild have such 
an impact on me. Either I'm a 
bit confused with iMvltgln Saving 
Tune still, or "Ice Age II: The 
Meltdown" did its jnh ol making 
one think about the future, who 
they have, but most impintantK 



and all will die unlet 
they can make it t 
the boat (a piece i 
bark big enough for 



few hundred 

which is a three day 

walk away. 

While the herd of 
Ice Age animals are 
making their journey, 
Manny, Sid and Diego 



Ice Age: The Meltdown" 

ftie'.mws Starring: John Leguizamo. 
Ray Romano, Denis Lean/ 
Directed by: Carlos Saldanha 
Rated: PG 
Run Time: 91 minutes 



* * * * 



tall for hei Although she doesn't 
quite realize tb.it she's a mammoth 
until she's forced to face the past in 
an emotional trip down mentor) 1 
lane (yes. this is where I cried like 
a little baby: bet opossum habits 
remain with hei throughout the 

-ic v.' he. - es the ir.iveling 

companion of Manny, Sid and 
Diego along with her two brothers 
Crash and Eddie (who really are 
npossimisi While Manny is trying 
to woo Elbe. Sid is trying to earn the 
respect of Diego He attempts to 
show the ludiophnhic saber-tooth 
that the water can be defeated and 
that most animals can swim as 

"Ice Age 11" has beautiful 
scenery, transitions with Scrat, the 



► ICE AGE: Page A7 




ung outside a Detroit nightclub in a 
shooting that left another man in critical condition. " 



There is one who is 
worst than the rest 



adVANCEd Notice 



e you feel the smallest of bonds with 

Me, I will never forget the moment I read of the death 
of DeShaun Holton. better known to the world as DI2 
rapper Proof. It's not like I knew Proof or anything like 
that, but I did know his music Even mure. I was a fan of 



in 2002 of rap legend l.ison l.unMasUr lav" Mi/ell. it is ,i 
trend that tells bad things of the future. 

That is one reason why the death of Proof is 
unfortunate. 

Another is the youth of the young man thai most only 
know as Eminem's proiegc At only 12, 1'rool was takt n 
from this world in what hei a me an i ionic reality less than 
a year after Eminem's video "like h&gt;v Soldiers" depicted 
Proof being shot and killed in a drive-by. 

Dying young is always tragic, especially with a young 




uch to still offer the entertainment 
■en working on and off on a debut 
king to break into making movies 
■"8 Mile" and The 



ining live members of D12, this has to 
hardest times that they have seen. The 
le group was also marred by tragedy 

icmbcr Bug?, (stage name) was killed by 

htm ► PROOF: PageA? 



being said, I've decided t&lt; 

part column about the worst actor and 

actress in Hollywood. 

Why do you care? I'll tell you why. 
One, these people are making millions 

up lillions of dollars for sucking at 

their job. I dunno about you, but if 1 
don't perform well, 1 get axed. I surely 
don't get a raise. And I certainly don't 
make the cover of "US Weekly." Two, 
reading [his will chew up a couple 
moments of the day. Maybe you 
need a break from studying, or 
. If so, read 



, I like. 
I know that 



Now, on with the 
show. You should know 
that there were a few 

garner the 




i: ^i^/y/ 



iiVi in! ii 1 in 1 '3 



New 'Ten Commandments' 
falls short of original epic 



Movie Review 



when, around r 
something I liadn'i dune in weeks; sit 
down and watch television. I watched 
a little "American Idol" and cringed 
s decimated songs 



least according to the documents I 
looked at (I did re-read Exodus, by 
the way). 

As Tar as the falsifications, I am 
not too upset. 1 understand, and 
respect, artistic freedom. That 
notwithstanding, when one is 
retelling a documented c 



doesn't count. 

Obviously. 'y°u can tell how much 

on an accent. My theory is this: if 



ipecially one as well-known 
Biblical tales, please don't take t 
much license; unless one is creating 






i McPhee, I decided to 
switch the channel. And, as 1 only 

boast (he Fab Five (i.e. the basic 
channels ARC, CBS, NBC. PBS and 
FOX), I randomly stopped on ABC. 
I ended up catching the t. 



completely fictional character and Argentina and still others were from 

inserting him/her into the story. America. So. either way, I guess I'd 

That being said, I'm going to turn be annoyed. 

i subject that I do know OK, so I obviously obsess a little 



-tofl-i 



....mine. 



The second half of too much, but 

opened with the Israelites understand where I'; 

crossing the Red Sea Moses (played fmmV Is continuity ton much to ask 

by Dougray Scott of "MI:2" fame) is for in this day and age? Seriously! 

Speaking of me being 



holding his staff in 



Thoroughly intrigued. I opted t&lt; 



the air and s 
down his adopted 
brother. Meneriih 
(played by Naveen 
Andrews -yes, 



touched, and classic 

of them! 



; things just shouldn't be 



thing or b 
like the I 

though I \ 



at going to lie and 
I watched the whole 
low the whole story 



"The Ten Commandments" 

instantly, Starring: Naveen Andrews, 
very first Dougray Scon, Ashley Artus 
Directed by: Robert Dorrvhelm 
Rated: NR 
Two-Part Mini Series 






■ hand (even 

&gt; Catholic school 

) years). 1 can, however, 

tell you with absolute certainty that 
2006s mini-series version of "The 
Ten Commandments" was a far cry 
away from Cecil 15 DeMille's l c F.(, 




3 picky, did anyone 
else who watched this 
atrocity notice how 
cheesy the graphics 



Biblical 

tart thinking that I'm going to 

down your 



accents'! I've never been able to 
understand why it's acceptable to 
use an English accent in place of 
other, more appropriate ones. 

around during 



shove the Old 



those later.) Most &lt; 
I found were in line 



Granted. I 
Moses' mass exodus from the 
horrors of Egyptian life. Because of True, it 
ours, this, perhaps people did speak with original; whit h 
tions an English accent; but, somehow, interesting to w 
had I find that incredibly unlikely. 
et to I also find it hard to believe that 
wers people indigenous to Egypt and the 
t the surrounding i 



years, don't you think 
it would possible to 
make the parting of 
the Red Sea look a 

For goodness sakes, 
DeMille's team did 
a much better job; 
and they had much 
fewer resources. I 
actually laughed at 
the graceful flow of 
the water "crushing" 
die I n\ptians - who were clearly 
actors splashing around like idiots 
in a pool. (Word to the wise for 
all special effects "gurus:" make the 
color of the water match!) 

Overall, it was a crappy re-make, 
darker than the 






Visual arts senior creates 
original cartoon for project 



Before graduation, ,ill seniors within the School of 
Visual and Performing Arts are required to complete 
a senior project. For theater majors, this may include 
directing a production For music majors, a senior 
recital is expected. For Sean Griffith, a graphic design 
major in the department of visual communication and 
design, with a self -described sense of humor and love 
for cartoons, created an original cartoon for his senior 
project, complete with merchandise. 

The cartoon, entitled "Billy Vector and Tubs," follows 
the escapades of Billy Vector, a boy, and an overweight 
squirrel named Tubs. The linchpin of the 



e of danger that is embedded in each storyli 
often proves to be the most troublesome aspect. 

"I have to think about how to include a sen; 
danger within the cartoons," Griffith commented. 
that's probably the most trouble I have. 




[his 



Originally, Griffith 
mature audience and had to tone it down t&lt; 
level. Through that process, Billy and Tubs b&gt; 



for i 



e usually engaging in 

activities that the\ shouklu'i be i Ionic,. Tub was included 
in the cartoon at the last minute, to make that story 
angle possible. 

"I added in Tubs to add more humor, but especially 
satire. That, and teams always work better; just look at 
Batman and Robin," Griffith said. "I also thought it'd be 



be human. Vou can have animals as characters, like 
Porkchop in Doug." 

i Tubs began their adventures through hand 



"'Billy Vector' would have been very different had I 
not used vector drawing." Griffith explained. "A definite 
plus is being able to resize the image to whatever s' 



The bedroom project has been in the planning stages 
for over a year, although Griffith plans to only spend 
two weeks putting the bedroom together. The bedroom 
will be primarily created by priming, such as t-shirt 
transfers and print offs that he can apply to items, like 



lunchboxes. 

The final project will b 
; portion of a boy's bedroom d 



) foot scaie r 



it without distorting it." 



Griffith plans to keep the bedroom after it is done 
showing for his project at Kachmann Gallery. As for the 
future of Billy and Tubs, Griffith has no current plants to 



n the future." Griffith said. 



A&amp;E Briefs 



BFA exhibit scheduled at 
Kachmann Gallery 



. During that 



Gallery from April 2 1 through May 6. 

Twenty-two seniors will show their senior projects 

same lime period, the Visual Arts Cillery .it ll'IW will display examples of ei 

their pto|ects that can lie seen in their entirety at the Kaehniaun Gallery at Kill] 
Lafayette Street. » 

The opening reception is April 21, 6 to 9 p.m. The gallery is open Thursday 



■llM-1,711'1 



1 ol visual 



ami design ,i 



Downtown Artlink featuring 
new gallery through May 

On April 14. (lie Artlink t, alien on Fast limy Si reel in downtown l-»r( Wayne held 
the opening rect-pi ion lor their new gallery "Moihcrlodc: I etniiiiue I locutuenlatioii." 
lite gallery will he open now through May 17 tin May I from 5:30 to 7:30 at the 
gallery, female artists will |uin the Molherlode t .roup in a social meeting. 

Also currently in the hallway gallery at Artlink are I.ynn Uiatnentf watercolors. 

Motion Picture of the Year to 
be shown on campus 

The Office nl Diversity and Multkiiliur.il Allairs will he showing the Oscar 
winning film "(rash' on campus this week. I he film won the academy award 
lor Minion Picture of the Ve.it last month I he screenings are part of a diversity 
i iillahoialiee presented by the Department ol Nursing, the Department of Dental 
education, the Office ol Diversity and Multicultural Allairs, ll'SGA and the ll'IW 
Diversity Council. 

While the firsi two showings lake place before press time, the final showing will 
take pi. ii r tomorrow. I'hursd.iy. April HI at 7 p.m. in Classroom Medical. Doom l!W. 
lmmedi.iiK following the sirecning. theie will lie a disi ussion forum moderated by 
current Student body President I amar Dixon. 

The screening is free For more information, cont.u l the ( Mice ot ( liversity and 
\hilm nhor.il Allairs at 181-6608. 



Local metal act achieves 
greatness on live disc 

Movie Review 



Never before have 1 heard a sound so 
powerful, yet so elegant and intricate. 
[he songwriting and instrumentation 
is compelling and dazzling. Local 
metal band, Soulfyre, has created a 
masterpiece in the form of a six-track, 
live album - brilliantly titled "Live." 

The songs all have the same masterful 
qualities nnd techniques that make a 
baud recognizable to any sane person. 
"Live" radiantly uses heavy, chugging 
metal riffs that only exemplify the 
heartfelt lyrics of loss, death and denial; 
all of which use extreme profanity in the 
most perfect way. 

Soulfyre is a band in which I can see 
sticking around in the metal genre for 
many, many years to come. They are a 




MM 



level and certainly revolutionary, i 
for this Fort Wayne band to go p 
because they have created an albi 



many Mudvaync albums. Hie sound is 
unoriginal, the lyrics sound untrusting 
and sung for a particular image and the 
album is absolute trash as a whole. 

Call me a bad writer, or just a music 
snob, but I could not come up with 
enough good points to inform you of. 
If I were to list the negative qualities 
about this recording, 1 would simply 
run out of things to say and begin to 
repeat myself. The result is an article 
of great recognition, but of complete 



This Newspa 




squirrel who never gets his acorn, and jokes that adults can lai 
cautioned that this movie contains a few scary moments with som 
few bad words in reference to a buno, and for those who always se 

commercials, the identity issues will take you back to middle school.. 



It is difficult to imagine how Proof's friends The loss of Proof is sad and that is the bottom 

must feel today, how they have felt for the last line in this horrible situation. 
week and how they will feel for Some time to Feel it or not, like his music or not - let us all 

come. hope that something is learned from this so we 

Those are alt of the things I felt last Tuesday preserve the future for more people like Proof 

as I read about a person | ,&gt;nly knew through his to entertain and really live life the way they 

lyrics and vocals on a pair of albums and only deserve to live it. 
ever saw through my television screen. 



consisting of five mellower, 
more serious songs. It was 
during this portion of the show 



knew him on a pers 
His bandmates returned for 
the last half of the show, and 
together they performed many 



Suburbs." Those who have 
never attended a Ben Folds 
show are generally astonished 
when he gives the crowd a brief 
music lesson andhas them sing 
the three-pan harmony which 
accompanies the song "Not 
the Same," while he conducts. 
After leaving the stage, he 
returned for a two-song encore 
beginning with "Cooler than 



200 Solemn Faces." After his 

trademark tossing of the stool 

thepiano.hegavea 

w befor 

onclttd 

Folds h 

touring fairly consistently for 
the past two and a half years, 
and is definitely a worthwhile 
experience if you get the 
opportunity. 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



fnitedOh 

Art and Education | 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



Join our warehouse team in a fun, friendly environment. 

■ Work part-time now/full-time in the summer. 

■ Duties include order filing, w.n.mw.mj 

■ Starting at $7.50/hour. 

United Art and Education • Monday - Friday 9arr&gt;5pm • 4413 Airport Expressway 




only did I lalk with my closes! 
friends and my family, 1 bugged 

complete strangers, 



(A Razzie, by the way, is like an 
Oscar, but for crap.) Lastly, as 
previously mentioned above, 
the decision has to be* based 
solely upon performance, not 
on my biased, snotty opinion. 



offers. Arnie came up a 
imes; so did the Wayans 
brothers ■ alt 45 of them; yet 
the person that blew everyone 



most often and with the most 
determination was (drum roll, 
please) Keanu Reeves. Not 
a big shocker, I know. But I 
hadn't really thought about 
how bad he really is. Then I 
re-waiched some of his movies. 
Granted "Bill and Ted" are 
super-cool; we all know, with 
complete certainty, that it was 
not because of Reeves. 

I have to hand it to the guy. 
He really commits. I mean, 



the wrong line of work. I can't 
understand it. This dude keeps 
getting cast in relatively decent 



as sin!) So, what is it about 
this guy that keeps people 
clamoring back for more? If 



All of this while commanding 
at least S15 million per movie 



of all three 

- 40 percent tola)). That's a 

butt-load of money for doing 



wln-n lii'i'W". .miliums-, (il hi' MM VV1-.1-K: The 



choke, feel free t&lt; 

let me know who you would'v 

picked and why. Know, though, 



that happened, 1 else away by sucking the when he ' 



World's Ugliest Dog, for the rest 
of my natural born life than 
watch a movie starring Reevi"-. 



nii'i i lunge my mind. 



The Communicator, along with Confluence literary 

magazine (a division of ArtsGroup) and the Department 

of English and Linguistics presents: 



i.lis|)Lhril .&lt; unit- i.mjv.r "1 iiiMtiiri.iiifin ;u id iri.iUMii (li.n urn.- very t'lijoyablc. We 
would like to ili.inV caili individual thai participated in the contest .indliope that 
you continue to Oiow interest anil support for The Communicator and Confluence 
literary Magazine. I In- 1 omniuniiatoi would also like Hi lli.mk Sarah Sandman of 
Confluence fur all oi lur lulp anil support with this contest. Now, on 10 the first, 
second and third plat e winners: 



2006 First plac 



"A Game of Tag" 
by Jeff Newman 



"I'm outside playing tag!" Johnny called into the house. 
Alarmed, his parents ran after him. As they reached the 
door, gunshots were heard. 

"Looks like Johnny won, Frank..." 

The father sighed and stepped outside. "I won!" said 
Johnny. 

"That a boy.. .Get inside," Frank said as he dug another 
grave. 



Second Place Winner: 

Untitled 
by Lucas Cubic 

He packs his bags, grabs his gun. Off 
lo a faraway land. His family and wife, 
left behind, with promise of return. His 
promise is stolen by enemy rage. For 
her tear glazed eyes, she gets a flag. Self 
realization, only the dead, have 
end of the war. 



the 



Third Place Winner: 

"I do" 
by Julia L. Parrish 

After two weeks of him-hawing, it was 
time to commit to his wedding proposal. 
Driving to work, she pulled out her cell 
phone and dialed his number. 

Texting, "I accept. Love you," she hit 
send, Content and relieved, she glanced 
up, seeing nothing but semi-truck head- 
lights coming directly at her. 




! ■' vl^.v 



E3 



Pair of wins gives team MIVA momentum boost 



up regular season play over the 
weekend hosting two teams from 
the Eastern Intercolligiete Volleyball 
Association and walking away with 

On Friday night, the iOth-ranked 

Nittany Lions of Penn Stale visited (he 
Milliard Galus Spurts Center to battle 
the Mastodons and jumped out to a 
2-1 lead before IPFW rallied back to 
win the match 30-25, 27-30. 24-30. 30- 
28 and 15-10. it was the first time that 
Coach Arnie Ball's team had defeated 
Perm Stale since 2000. 

"We've talked all year about this 
being a team and having players that 
could come in and help us. lerrod 
Quillen, Michael Quinones and Mike 
Daiga all came in and made a major 
contribution," Ball said of the victory. 
"When that happens, you gel fresh legs 
and it changes ynnt outlook, changes 
your flow, changes your chemistry. 
Sometimes it works and sometimes 
it doesn't. And (against Penn State) it 



march with a big single game v 

The back and forth First game saw 
IPFW rally to a 10-7 lead early on and 
the Mastodons never looked back as 
they led the rest of the way, increasing 
the lead to a game high five points for 

Games two and three were again 
back and forth for the two teams, but 
each saw the Nittany Lions with the 
advantage. In game two. Penn State 



back to back attack 
errors, opening the door for an IPFW 
comeback. Hut strong blocking from 
Anderson and Holt, who ofien helped 
form a triple-block against Macias, led 
Penn State to the win. 

In the third game, more attack 
errors hampered IPFW as theit passing 
snuggled and they were often unable 
to set up any players orhcr than Macias. 
j Nittany lions wore playing 



Penn State looked to be wrapping 
things up in game tour as they jumped 
out to a 7-1 lead early on and led by 
as many as 13 points late at the score 



But a huge 18-3 run lead the 
comeback for the Mastodons to take 
the game four win. I reshman Michael 
Quinones stepped in to serve with 
IPFW down 22-28 and helped the 
Mastodons to the win, finishing [he 

"People just give a spark to the 
team. Michael Quinones went in 
during game four and ripped off a 

bunch of serves. I hose type of plays 
that come off the bench are huge for 



court. " said senior Mike Daiga. 

Game Five was all IPFW as they 
jumped out to a 7-3 lead, closing the 
deal and sealing the upset on a kill 



matches I have ever played in here,' 
Sikca noted. 

Sikca played Macias' right hand 
man with 1-i kills and eight blocks 
Sophomore lush Slcwart added nine 
kilts while junior seller ( til ii i I iiiideen 



was all over the court lor IPFW with 55 
assists. six digs and seven blocks. 

The Mastodons had a strong 
showing on defense with II tuial digs 

On Saturday night, IPFW hosted 
the struggling Hangers Newark Scarlet 
Haiders am! picking up win number 20 
for (be season 30-28, 10-24, 30-28. 

The Mastodons avoided a letdown 
after the previous night's comeback 
upset over Penn State to reach the 
20-win plateau for the first time in six 

To start out the year at 2-5 and 

finish off 20-ti is pretty remarkable tor 
this group of kids." Hall noted of the 

Macias led IPFW with 17 kills; the 

next most was seven horn Sikca on 
Senior Night. 

IPFW showed depth in the win. wirh 
all hut one player seeing action. Juniors 
Quillen and lason Hemphill each saw 
significant time, as did Quinones and 
freshman Vitor Oliveria, who played 
lihero for all of game three. 

"We were just struggling with our 
passing so it's really good to have guys 
that come off the bent h and fill in and 
rake over those roles." Macias said. 



I he teams played hack and forth 
ball early in game one. but IPFW 
took the lead for good at 22-21 on a 
from Rutgers' Graydon 



from Sikca, junior losh Collins and 
sophomore Brock Ullrich. 

In game two, IPFW jumped up 6-1, 
but Rutgers rallied back to tie things 



kills in the game Game three again 
showed IPI-W's diversity and ability to 
face adversity as a fresh lineup enrered 
the game and sent Rutgers packing. 
Quinones pieked up 15 assists aftei 
replacing I undeen at setter to help 

"The win tonight gave us a chance 
to play more kids and give them a 
chance to feel good about what their 
contribution is to our ream," said Ball. 

"It was a really great team effort," 
Daiga added ol the pair of weekend 



the middles involved and 
the outsides involved and 
keep teams guessing on what 
we are going to do with the 
volleyball," Macias added. 
Despitewinning20 matches 

and a 16-match win streak, the 
s still looking forward. 



for the Cardinals. 

The winner of the 
Mercyhurst/Ball State match 
will play the winner of IPFW/ 
Carthage. 



Scnlar Sikca added. 

In the three seed-s 
seed matchup, the Ball S 
Cardinals (20-6) 
Mercyhurst (3-20). Lewis, 
coached by Dan Friend, 
would be the sixth seed in 



Buckeyes have beaten Quincy 






facing NCAA sanctions due to 
violations from their National 
Championship team. 

Instead, Mercyhurst. who 
have lost their last five, will 
take the sixth seed. 1-10 in 
the MIVA, Mercyhurst is led by 
a of hitters. Nate Keegan 



against each other on April 15 
with Ohio State winning 30- 
23. 34-32, 30-28. 

A diversity of options has 
helped Ohio State to within 
one win of a 20-win season. 
Three players have reached 

led by Stuart Katz's 264. Mark 
Greaves has fallen off a bit this 
year, but is traditionally strong 



Chicago. The Ramblers have 
swept both Quincy and Ohio 
State this season, winning all 



six matches and has r 
since back-to-back losses to 
Hawai'i on March 17 and 18. 
They wrapped up their second 
straight conference regular 
season title in a win over IPFW 
two weeks ago and ended the 
defeating Rutgers- 



Neuark last Friday. 

The Ramblers will have t 



State coach Pete h 



Dan Kick has been a force 
at setter with 881 assists. In the 
team's April 13 loss to Juniata. 
Kick broke the school's all- 
lime assists record. 

Ball State has defeated 
Mercyhurst two times this 
year, each by the score of 3- 
0. The Cardinals started the 
season 11-0 until a 3-1 loss 
to IPFW on Feb. 17. Ball 
State is 8-4 in the MfVA, split 



just look a 
and not being able to string 
together good plays for a long 
enough period of time." 

Ohio State won the 
MIVA Tournament last year, 
defeating IPFW in the finals. 
The Buckeyes r 



of Quincy and Ohio State. The 

Ball State/Mercyhurst winner 
will play the winner of IPFW/ 
Carthage that day at 5 p.m. 
The two winners will advance 
to the finals on April 28 at 4 
p.m. All semi-final and final 



o defeat the MIVA 
champions in conference play 
this year. 

Nick Meyer has become a 
strong player for Ball State, 
who has in the past looked 



"When you are talking 
about the playoffs and what 
goes on inside the minds 
of these young athletes, 
it's anybody^ guess and it's 
anybody's hallgame," Hanson 
said. "That's what makes the 
playoffs interesting is that you 
kind of throw out the previous 



Evan Berg. Berg, day." 



"Knowing each other well enough and 
knowing when each other are down and the 
right ways lo pick each other up and knowing 
when to stay away a little bit is a big part of it." 
he said. 

"We have an understanding of what we can 
and can't do on the Field," Keena added. 

Keena came in as one of the more high 
profile recruits from Homestead High School 
and rarely disappointed. Hie centerliekler lot 
.339 as a junior and is hitting a .342 this year 
with a team high 40 hits. 

Even better, keena lias been ranked by the 
NCAA this year for stolen bases. He has stolen 
22 on 27 attempts as a senior and has 86 career 

"Ryan Keena has a pulse." Gernon said of 
Keena s shot as a pro baseball prospect. "It's not 
as strong of a pulse as (former shortstop Ryan) 
Sieinbaeh had, hut it's a pulse, lie brings an 
intangible thai some guys don't have and that's 
speed and speed doesn't slump." 

Brent Alwine has also heen starting since his 
freshman year at se&lt; oiui base and has become 
a solid hitter in the lineup I be Mexico, Indiana 
native has the best career batting average of 
any of the seniors at .3 1 3 with a career best .336 

First baseman Caleb Smith has also batted 
over .300 (.311) in his time at IPFW. Despite 
never having a homerun or triple, Smith has 



season injured with a hone chip ii 

Sean Kirk batted .368 in his junior season 
with Five homeruns to really establish himself 
as a key pari of die i lass. He even spent most of 
the 2005 season ranked by the NCAA in batting 



anything for granted t 
nighi. Daiga said. 



will advance to 
this year's Final Four, to be 
played at Penn State on May 
4. 

With the tournament 
drawing closer. Ball looks 
back fondly, knowing that his 
IPFW team has been special 
no matter how they fair in the 
conference tournament. 

"No matter what happens 

great year and I think each and 
every one of these kids will 
walk away from here saying 
'Man, what a great experience 
and 1 am glad I was part of 



mound. 

Travis lohnson has had no decisions thus far 
in his senior season and has spent much of his 
time at IPFW as a reliever. Hie Wapaluini High 
School graduate has 39 career strikeouts and 
34 walks. 

Lambert starred his first ever IPFW game in 
right field, but has become o 



32 starts. Lambert has also heen a provider 
the hailing end wiih live career hoineruns and 
35 RBI. Matt Hagedorn moved to pitcher this 
year alter three yea*s as a catcher. He batted a 
career high .Jiiii iasi yearhul was limited to just 
14 games due to injury. 

Also part of the senior class is Brent Doty, 
who came in as a transplant from I iiicoln frail 
College, but has also quitklv become part of the 
Mastodon family. 

"The cornerstones -of our program when 
we recruit are trust, work ethic, academic 
direction, passion, energy and all of those 
things we talk about that are important in our 
program ■ these guys bring that," Gernon noted 



just heen so pleased with their development 



o looks at that fact as a blessing. 

"We don't do anything without each other 
and it's something that is going lo last forever. 
Everybody is different in their own way yet we 



Notre Dame, who holds the 
longest winning streak in the 
7 games. But the 



i pull out, most notably the 
-0 win at Iowa on Mar. 25. 

"Our guys don't have that 
lenlality, though they might 
from other people," 



lost to Notre Dame 6-4. 

"It is hard to beat a team 
four games in a row, but that 
primary goal (last 



weekend)," Gernon i 

I think before (he season starts 

if you look at a series of four 

games and you can win three 

of them, that's a pretty good 

deal." 



Gernon said. "We 

program this ■ 



Defiance College and Grace 
College, along with middle-of- 
ad teams like Western 
Kentucky and South Dakota 
State. While this surely will 
result in more wins for IPFW, 
Gernon isn't too big of a fan of 
having to do it, 

"I don't like to schedule non- 
Division I teams: I am not a big 
an of it at all," Gernon said. 
But hey, as an Independent, 
ve are forced into having to 

This is the time of the 
;eason when conferences are 
n the midst of their regular- 



plenty of opportunities to get 
close to those numbers. 

"The goal of 25 wins is still 
reachable, with 30 being just 
magical (if it happened)," 
Gernon said. "We let two or 
three games get away from us, 



their home record, where they 
are 6-2 so far this season. 

Recruiting news 

IPFW already signed six 
players In the fall signing 



to that position. Typically, we 
have had 10-11 pitchers on 
the roster; I'd like to see that 
number around 14-15." 

Gernon has said that he has 
received three &lt; 

far this spring, 



. One i 



i fast, 



other conference foes. For 
he Mastodons, scheduling 
non-Division I schools is the 
only option when teams in 
"orizon, Mid-Con and 
MAC conferences don't have 
ne allotted to play the 
Mastodons. 

"Both the MAC and the 
Horizon lost their bye weeks 



schools in those conferences 
able to schedule teams 
f conference, benefiting 
"But playing n 



24 -win campaign, but not 
in the speed category. While 
Ryan Keena and Zach Walton 

basepaths, stealing 34 bases 
between them, overall team 
speed has diminished a bit 
from a year ago. 

"The production has been 
good this year; we are inching 
toward that .300 batting 
average 



quick player out of a jui 
college in the mold of Ryan 

"With the style we play, the 
scrappiness. thesiealingbas 



While Gernon isn't 
necessarily happy with not 
being able to schedule more 
big games at home, he is happy 
for the fact that his team, 
particularly the 10 seniors, 
have every opportunity to play 
in front of family and friends 
at home. He is still looking to 
increase the home game count 



Andrew Porter update 

Junior Andrew Porter, who 
transferred to IPFW from 
Blackhawk Community College 






.,!.!.,■ 



evaluate freshmen and guys 
o haven't played much." 
Last weekend, the 
Mastodons halted a four-game 
losing streak when it won three 
of four games over Chicago 
State (4-24). Don't let Chicago 
State's record confuse you, 
however. The program beat 
Washington State when, it was 
ranked earlier this season and 



"Parents can come out and 
watch their kids and it also 
helps with academics," Gernon 
said. "Being away thn 
four days a 
lend to get 
classwork." 

So as most -teams head 
into the home stretch of 
their conference seasons, the 
Mastodons will look to pad 



a small muscle (ear in 
his left elbow and will take a 
medical red-shirt. Doctors say 
that he will need no surgery, 
but the injury will need four to 



just shut him down," Gernon 
said. "It could have been a deal 
where he would have needed 
Tommy lohn surgery and 



is named extremely proud to add both Hannah ; 
ason. Courtney to our squad." 

? point guard," Paul s 



defensive player who is a leader on the floor. 

"Both players bring energy and enthusias 

which we expect from our players. We ; 



i tremendous signed I 



. Amite a Morrow and 



Paul could r 
the coaching se 









; 


- J'""" 


Independent 
Tournament 

TOURNEY-TIME: Freshman tennis 
player Ashley Hunter returns a ball 
in a recent match against Wright 
State on April 13. IPFW will host 
the third annual women's Inde- 
pendent Tournament on April 21 
and 22 at the IPFW tennis courts 
on campus. The Mastodons look 
to improve on their third place 
finish at the tournament a season 
ago and have plenty of reason for 
confidence heading into the event 
with a program record 16 wins this 
season. For a preview of the tour- 
nament, check out Page A12. 


_ 


mm 


I 


■ i i 




A 







m^^n 



E^3 



Sikca and Daiga: IPFW's two of a kind 



SamrdayniKlH.il the Milliard 
Caics CcniiT marked the lasl 
home regular season game for 
two senior members of the 
morfs volleyball team Serdai 
sikca and Mike i ■ ■&gt;■ ■ 

Tor Sikt.i. ilie night was even 
more special as his family iv.is 
In attendance to see him play 
for the first lime In college 

"lliey hadn't seen me play 






Stale match) " 

Sikca's family, including his 
parents, Serdar and Hcfnh. and 



On senior night. Slfcca pi( ked 
up seven kills, two solo blocks 
and foui block assists. 

Over blscarocr at IPFW, Sikca 
has been a starter at middle 
hitter almost every match and 




Photos by Eugene Harding 



SENIOR NIGHT: Serdar Sikca (left) is one of two seniors for the men's volleyball team. Several members 
of Sikca's family traveled from his native Turkey for last weekend's matches. The other senior, Mike Daiga 
(right), also celebrated Senior Night with his family, including mother Rose Daiga (hugging coach Arnie Ball). 



Ball noted. "1 can't say enough 
about his contributions and 
what be has meant to our 
particular this year 



look back at it, it has developed 
me a lot." 

In 2005. Daiga stepped away 
from his traditional middle 
hitter role and split tin 
starting 



vith Mike 
Randolph. Without a true setter 
in (he lineup. Ball looked to 
Daiga to make an impact, and 



e middle, 
e go down, but 



on the bench, and that takes a 
pretty big person to do that." 

On senior night, Daiga 
played strong in the starting 
lineup with six kills and three 
blocks. But for him. the family 
atmosphere of Senior Night was 
something that he has become 
accustomed to at IPFW, and 
something that he always 
enjoys. 

"This program has always 
acted like a big family. Having 
my family here was great 
but having Serdar's family 
down here from Turkey is just 
awesome. I was so happy for 
him to have that opportunity," 



i and the first option i 
i -.iiln blocks for a total of the middle, Sikca developed 



As a freshman. Serdar put 
up 16 total blocks (all block 
assists) aguinsi Ohio State, a 



5H0 blocks. 

"It was a great ride ioi f 
years litis school and t 
program have really given 



; leader this 

according to Ball. 

"Over the lean years, he has 



"Playing through all kinds of 
different elements and making 
a commitment and going 

tiiruu^h with it, \\\ been a great 

four years," Daiga said. "Too includini 



"Teams that act like family 
succeed and I think that is why 
our team is doing well this 

Though honored before 
the Rutgers-Newark game, the 
two seniors will play their final 
: match Saturday i 

Center as the Masti 
Carthage in the first i 
nl tin.- MIVA loumament 



H mf 


Senior Day 

A CONNECTION IS MADE: Jenna 
Beachy connects for a hit in IPFW's 
game against Indiana Wesleyan 
on Monday, April 1 at Mastodon 
Field. The senior is second on the 
team in batting average (.327), 
hits (32), doubles (4), RBI (14), to- 
tal bases (39) and is tied for games 
played (34) as of April 18. Beachy 
is the lone senior on the field 
for the young Mastodons squad 
this season because first base- 
man Heather DeVore went down 
very early with a shoulder injury. 
Beachy has been an excellent of- 
fensive player for the Mastodons 
over her four years, compiling a 
career .327 batting average, 29 
doubles, 26 home runs, 81 RBI and 
just 73 strikeouts in 492 at-bats 
as of April 18. She will be honored 
at Senior Day on Thursday, April 20 
at 3 p.m. 







Paul signs two for '06- '07 season 



No change atop new AVCA polls 



Vuu.irJjrli.ir.L.indthei Mum ever Mountain I'autu 
Spurts ledcratinn regular season championship 
' e the April 18 Division 1 polls of the 



begins for all Division I ti 

The Anteaters claimed 15 of 16 first place 
votes, with the only other going to Hawaii who 
stays second in the polls, 14 points behind U( - 

Cal State Nnrthridge dropped from third* to 
sixth in the poll- allowing lung He.uli Mate hack 
into the top three. Pepperdine i-l) and BYU 15) 
round out the top live in the polls. 

UCLA and MIVA regular season champions 
Loyola-Chicago traded spots with U( l.\ taking 
over seventh in the polls loyola-t Imago did 
pic k up a win over the weekend against Rutgers- 



r drop in the polls. Three 



points puts them 21 out 

of ninth place and up on 1 1th by 17 points. The 

iiunilu'i unr team is 111 points up on Coach 

Penn Slate drops to 1 1th while USC drops one 
spot to 12th. 

George Mason, Ball State and Ohio State did 
mil move in the nev. polls and round out the top 
15. Pacific, who dropped out of the top 15 last 
week, was not listed on two or more ballots. 

New polls released on \pril .' -J will be based on 
the I ir&gt;i round of conteret ice tournament^ plaved 



Your 



Here 

call 
481-653 

for 
details 




By Nick West 



Chris Paul has signed two players to reload 
his roster for the 2006-07 season, but has yet to 
sign the two assistants he said he would upon 
ins promotion front interim to head coach on 
March 22. 

Hannah Thieke. a 5-foot-9 guard from V 



High ' 



Kokomo, will bring versatility 
t because she can play either guard 
position or small lorward. Courtney Reed, a 
5-foot-7 guard from Fort Laramie High in Fori 



IPFW's style is up-tempo with an emphasis on 
the lasi break offense and 3-2 zone defense. 

Thieke was a four year starter and was named 
to the All-Conference, All-Sectional and All- 
kokomo area teams lor three years She was also 
named to the Kokomo Tribune All-Area First 
Team for the 2005-06 season and earned several 
team awards, meluilmg Most Valuable Player. 

Her 1,106 career points ranks fifth all-time 
at Western. She averaged 16.3 
points and 5.6 rebounds per 
game her senior season. Her 
scholarship is a full-ride. 

"Hannah is a very talented 
player who brings speed and 



ir Ashley Johnson. 

The two assistants should be hired by the 
beginning of May. 

Thieke chose IPFW over 1UPUI because she 
felt liketheschoi.il expressed more interest in her 
and it was a better fit, according to a Kokomo 
Tribune story on March 27. 

"I really liked the campus." Ihieke told the 
newspaper, "The campus is gorgeous and it's not 
too big and its not too small It fits me better than 
am other one And then the basketball program, 
that's jusi like how I've always player throughout 
high school. I like their style of play." 



m 



She is Fort Laramie's all-time three- 
point shot-maker (1241 and assist leader 1367). 
She also set the school mark with 4 r &lt; made three- 
pointers in a single season last year. 

She received nmluplt eight awards her senior 
year, including All-County first learn, All-Ohio 

► BASKETBALL: PageA9 




reat courses to 
try this summer! 



Show your student i.d. and get 

$2 off 

'vTferejpns fees at Foster, Shoaff, 
and M^Wltllen Park Golf Courses 

wwy/.fortwayneparks.org 










GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 



We're hiring students NOW, part-time and RU.-T1ME! 



Home City Ice 



Flexible Hours and GREAT PAY!! 

Route Delivery Positions Available 

We Offer 10-40+ Hours/Week! 

$8.00 to $12.00+ /Hour 

Great part-time hours are available and we otter schedule flexibility. Work around your 

school schedule with morning/afternoon and weekend hours. 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! 

Train in one facility during school, and work in another during summer break! 

Schedule an interview today and bring a friend! 

CALL TODAY: 1 (800) 622-6566 



Or visit us at tNww.homecityice.com to fill out an online application! 






ES 



Seniors continue to experience growth through bonds 



Senior class of 10 looking to lead coach Billy Geijion and IPFW to 
its third straight 20-win season 

n„ n„r,Wr,r,,-, Fowler is batting .255, his second lowest 

By Dan Vance season to date- Ironically his lowest season in 

djvanceeipfwcommuriicator.oig batting average was the one that got him a lot of 

attention. In his sophomore year, l-owler hit four 

homenins unhiding three in one week. The third 

baseman has three of his ciglu career limn balls 



It was Feb. 2H. 2UUA when n &gt;egan. IPFW. 

led by then second year coach Billy Gernon, took 
the field at Cumberland University in Lebanon, 
Tennessee starting four freshmen from an 
unusually large class. 

Four years later, there they are again. Tyler 
Fowler is still hitting a high percentage (3-of-5 
in that first game injuo.i) ,m,l Ryan keena is still 
stealing the base paths [had bis first that day 
-against Cumberland). 

And eight more - they are still doing their 

Some have changed Man Hagedorn and hru 
Lambert have each moved from the field to the* 
mound, but mostly it is the same. 

"I had a choice when we went Division 1 to 
load up with junior college players and win right 
away or plant a hunch ot small trees and nurture 
them and water them and watch them grow 
and build good team chemistry. And that all did 
happen," Gernon says nun, looking back. 

Over the past three and a half seasons, the 
class has thrived despite losing several players. 
But still 10 of the originals have stayed. Among 
them are three (Fowler, keena and /ach Walton! 
who have plaved in and started all to games thus 
far in the 211(1(3 season. 



this year. 

He has started all but three games thai he has 
played in during his collegiate career despite 
some nagging iii|iitii's. He has spent much of this 
season with a Una ting hour chip in bis ankle. 

"To be a part of something and help build that 
was our main goal," lowler says " lo watch how 
over the last lour years that we have improved as 
a team has been really great." 

Walton has struggled iliis year alter a strong 
junior showing where he had 41 hits and three 
homenins. Walton has also been successful on 
43-of-Ki stolen base attempts including all 12 
this year. 

While rooming with lowler and Lambert at 
IPFW. Wall on has also been playing baseball with 
Keena since early in theit teen years. I or Walton, 
the bond that tie has developed with those three 
and the rest ol the class has helped greatly on 
the field. 

"The bond is the mental part of it. Because 
with baseball, there is a lot more mental than 
there is physical. It may sound 




i/' ■mlv.'iniiiiiiimi.-.ital.imi 



but there PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT: Senior Tyler Fowler prepares to hit during a brief 
batting practice session between games with Chicago State last Saturday 
► SENIORS: Page A9 afternoon. Fowler has started all but three games he has played in at IPFW. 



Men's tennis ends year with tough loss 



Sports Wrap 

By Nick West 
nwest@ipfwcommunkator.org 



eight in 2004-05 and 




Suel paces women's track 



three more than the program's previous 
high. But the team lost four of its last 
five to superior competition, including 
a season-ending loss at Buffalo on April 
16. 

Buffalo stymied H'FW's chance at 
picking up its first win against the Mid- 
American Conference this season and 
the Mastodons finished 0-5 against the 
conference. 

Senior Carlos Gonzalez ended his 
areer with a straight set victory and 

Jones picked up IPFW's other point in 



U 

Ritchey 



personal bests 

the process at the MSI I Spartai 
weekend, 
competed in the 100 mete 



The school records were in the 100 
leter hurdles (15.21 seconds). 200 
teter run (25.36 seconds) and the Long 



the 5-2 loss. 

Daniel Jackson and [ones won their do 
Buffalo took the other two and the point. 



Mike f-rucbey said in a press release. 
"She had personal bests in all five 

events, which bodes well for her upcoming Heptaihalon 
competition." 

Ashley RUclicy broke the record in the 1. 000 meter run 
with an impressive time of 10:17.58. She placed fourth. 



ipfwcommi^c^^^ 



The newspaper of IPFW since 1969 
is now available at the click of a mouse. 




Standards compliant 

programming - it works 

great in any browser, PC or Mac 



Up-to-the-minute 
on-campus weather conditions. 



Easy to access, searchable 
archives of past i; 



Another example of how the best way to get 
your IPFW news keeps getting better. 




IPFW softball team 
wins three of four 



r bats and better fielding help Mastodons 
sweep Notre Dame and split with Valparaiso 



IPFW ai;ain on defense. Four hits 



"Our bats have to come alive." 

Softball coach Keither l-isher has 

emphasized all year the difference 



1 by . 



a Beaehy. 






ins oil of a single by 

Keeping the rhythm going in 

"" a double by Angie Pasquali, 
D ..- by Jessica Mast. Ashley 
Johnson and Abhy I iden led to five 

Again in the sixth, the Mastodons 
slvnvcililieirp.iiiem eandi aphali/cil 
on their opponent's errors, walking 
twice to sei up an 1(1(1 lest by Johnson, 
l.ideu and Kacie Stone tor six runs 
ami an eight run rule finish alter the 
fifth. [I'FW won 14-6. 

After the decisive first win, the 
Mastodons started sophomore 
pitcher iXaialie &lt; lark lor (he second 



and IPFW v. 

After such an impressive finish 
against Noire (lame College on 
Ihursday. April 1 \ ll'l Whad trouble 
offensively am! defensively as the 
Mastodons gave up three unearned 
runs. Heathy and I, iden each had 
a. hit, but thai was all II'FW would 
get in that game. Freshman Katie 
Mastodons Aspegren was replaied by (lark in 
:apitalized (he fourth, but (he loss was charged 
Aspegren - her 10th of the season. 
Connelly started the second game 



ed her third win of the 
season. (Inly allowing three bits, two 
walks and one run in seven innings, il 
was a rnnsi impressive performance 
by the right hander. 

: supporting the pitcher 



l unearned, a prohiei 
that has plagued ll'FVV all season. 

However, hard work by the me: 
of the Mastodon lineup in a string of 
hits by I'asquali. loluison. Stone and 
l.iden culminated in a grand slam 



ti the game one loss, the Mastodoie 
Kits came alive alter three scoreless 
iiniiie&gt; in the lop of the fourth with 



Valparaiso tied il up and went 

ahead in ihe sixth, bill with two outs 
in the bottom of the seventh, a single 
by Stone, double by Heat by and triple 
by freshman Kayla Vargo pushed 



) five, and Connelly 
finished in superb lashion, retiring 
the final three to end the game and 
give II'FW a 5- 1 win. 

Thursday, April 20 is senior day 
and IPFW will square off against 
V'alparaisii.ig.iiii in a doublehe.idei al 
( p.m. IPFW heads lo Dayton on April 
23 for a doubleheader then returns 
home for an April 21 doubleheader 




oto by Chad Ryan / cryan@ipfwcommunicator.org 



STREAK: IPFW's Ashley Johnson gets in position to field a 
ground ball as Indiana Weslyan's Jenifer Nyhuis runs toward 
second base in a recent game between the Mastodons and 
Wildcats at Mastodon Field. 

Please Recycle 
This Newspaper 



I'ni G&gt;MMI!NKA|-()|; 



Sports 



WMhoday,A(«ai9,2006 





^etoattle^ 

Bragging Rights 

■ Conference tournament begins this week with IPFW taking 
the No. 2 seed; regular season champions Loyola get a bye 

By Dan Vance / djvance@ipfwcommunicator.org 

Oneyearago.IPFWpulIedofTtheupset.The good. They are pretty weil 

year before, it was Lewis. Upsets have become wilt fight, play hard and j 

a trend in the Midwestern Intercollegiate defense," Macias said. "We. 

Volley ball Association Tournament. out and get on them early and hopefully they 

This year is no exception to the tradition of will roll over." 

a tough crop of teams in the tournament. Ball agrees with Macias, but knows that 

Seeds one through six were determined by IPFW has to improve on the passing and 

standings of the Shondell/Dunlap blocking problems that hampered the 

Mastodons in their last regular season match 



DiUMnn jnd thesi 

From the Coleman Division Tournament. 

On Satuday, the second seeded IPFW 
Mastodons [20-61 will plav host to the Carthage Newark] a 
Redmen (12-12), the winners of the Colema 
Tournament. 

Carthage defeated MSOE and Clarke t 



advance to the MIVA Tournament. 
The Redmen also boast a Divi 
American in T.J. Bellel. Despite i 
strong in the Coleman Tournament, Bellei 
did have 10 kills in a previous meeting with 
IPFW. Recently leading Carthage has been 



. t up 2 
digs against MSOE and 18 kills ar 
against Clarke. 

Setter Matt Ulmer posted 54 a 
victory over Clarke. 



Ill All- IPFW has won 18 of their last 19 

playing while Carthage is the winner of their last three. 

However, the Redmen have not played 

April 1. 

As far as what IPFW will work 

into their match with the Redmen, 

it difficult to make many changes 



"They have a couple o! nice middles, they each other a little better and just polish 



s energetic and firry .Ami 

;1 
/erything to gain i 
IPFW coach Arnie Ball. 

The two teams opened the 2006 
against each other with IPFW walking 
away with the 3-0 (30-14, 30-23. 
30-23) win. The match saw IPFW 
sophomore C.J. Macias post ; 
season low in kills, something he 



skills a little bit, 





Rutgers-Newark. 

t play like we did (against Rutgers- 
1 expect them to roll over because 



't happen," Ball said. 
game that we really, really need to 
it in regards to preparation because 



"Our passing is getting a little 
sketchy; we need to work on 
that. Our serving, 



year," added Macias. 

outside 
hitter also says that the 
will need 

for diversity in their sets, 
Mimi'ilimn iliL'\ Mru^li-d 



► Ml A: Page A9 



Mastodons gear up for stretch run 



* It is exciting for us to host it and bring in 
some teams from different pans of the 
country ... we are looking forward to hosting 
it. We feel like we can beat anyone right now 
and that has been the general attitude over 
the past two months. If we play good tennis, 
we will have a shot at this tourney 1 think. 
But there is no margin for e 





teams like NCAA Tournament 
Dayton, Big 10 powerhouse Iowa and top- 
notch Mid-Con team Central Michigan 
the Mastodons (14-16 through April 17] 
i-nin tin.- final month 



heading into thfc Division I Independi 
liHirn.iiiuii! in South Dakota. 



Dan Vance/ djvance@ipfwi 



