Indiana University • Purdue Umvus irv • Fort Wayne 

Wedne sday, Feburary 23 , 2005 

The Communicator 



INSIDE: 



Up and Down Week 

Both basketball teams defeated 
TAMCC in a dramatic fashion. 



Dance, Dance, Dance 

See our pictures of the salsa and 
merengue lessons and find out 
how to join. PAGE A2 



Clean Air or Less Jobs? 

Bush's refusal to join Kyoto 
Agreement will save money. 
But is it worth it? PAGE A4 



Volume 35, Issue 21 



12 Pages, 2 Sections, Free 



THIS WEEK ► 



REN cabaret brought sever; 
drag performers togather 
musical show. PsgeAl 



i, what information a 



I Ealing 

you find 

I Student visas will soon bi 
to come by lor studying 8 
PtgiA3 

I "Mr. Indiana History'lU 

Bloomington professor e&lt; 



I letter to the Editor Vol 

Student Government El 



■ Senior David Simon namt 
Academic All American b. 
team, fi^e EM 



Restroom thefts increase 

■ Police and Safety find pattern in women's bathroom theft reports since Jan. 24 



By Nichole Hatha Thomas 



attended while in [hi' iv 
"Remember, just 

your possessions 



of your surroundings. Treat nil of 
ir wallet or nurse. You would not 
leave them lying on ,i utile inn i.l your sight." said Dougherty. 

If students keep all property in their sight, the number of 
thefts should decrease, according In Daugherty. 



n the last n 

On Ian. 24, Police and Safety received the first report from a 
women's restroom in ketilcr Hall. Similar reports were filed and on 
Feb. 7, and the department noticed a pattern. 

According to Police and Safely lieutenant Kill II. Daugherty, 
incidents are not isolated to one building or one time of day. So far, 
the only reports haw involved women's restrooms. 

The items stolen include norma! items inside a book bag: 
books, folders and calculators. However, Daugherty said, some 
cash and credit cards haw also been taken. 

Police and Safety listed the safety alert on the weekly events 
calendar on all lab access computers I eh. 1 1. They warned every 1 
one not to leave hook bags, purses or any personal belongings un- 

Childcare task force 
formed to determine 
needs 

sity. As younger faculty mem- 
bers have come to the univer- 

: past few years 



need for finding good care, es- 
pecially for the care of infants 
and toddlers," said Christine 
Erickson Ph.D., professor of 
history at IPFW. Erickson leads 






e task !", 



liWIttW. 1 !. 1 ,'. 1 .! 



meaning that children 
be enrolled in the care cen- 
ter for more than 20 hours per 
week. Because of its part-time 
status, the campus Child Care 
Center, located on the corner of 
Crescent Avenue and Hobson, 
cannot care for children under 
the age of two. 

The child care needs of 
students, staff and faculty have 
changed along with the univer- 



dren. The i 
and returning adult students 
to the campus is also a reason 
why there might be new child 

and majors, such as nursing 
students, may have education 
related work and internship 



serve all students, faculty and 
staff, said Linda Place, the di- 
rector of the Child Care Center. 
She also noted that the center 
is not open on campus breaks, 
which is problematic for fac- 
ulty members especially, who 
often keep office hours during 
breaks. 

When the Child Care 
Center was first established in 
1995, the campus was smaller, 

► TASKFORCE: Page A2 



Eating Disorder Awareness week 
starts Feb. 28, seminars planned 

EVENTS CALENDAR 



Next week, II'IVV has dedicated live days to the education 
and treatment of one of America's most serious health issues. Na- 
tional Eating Disorder Awareness Week begins Feb. 28. 

Various academic departments and organizations have 
come together to sponsor events promoting the awareness and 
prevention of different eating disorders. 

"We feel very motivated to raise more awareness about the 
types of eating disorders, causes of eating disorders, and how 
people can get help," said Health and Wellness Coordinator Judy 
Tillapaugh. 

The number of cases has been growing across the country, 
especially in the young adult population, she said. 

There are many activities scheduled for the week, all of 
which focus on recognizing symptoms of eating disorders and 

n prevention. 



There will be a Great Jeans Give Away, beginning Monday, 
Feb. 28. This event is designed to encourage people to "let go of 
the negaUve judgments and unrealistic expectations they may 
have of themselves," Tillapaugh said. 

Students will have the chance to donate old jeans, or deco- 
rate and personalize a pair. There will be a table set up with a 
counselor standing by to answer questions. Tips and strategies 
for boosting self-esteem will also be given. 

Eating Disorders 101 and "Don't Tell Me How to Eat" are 
panel presentations and discussions to offer awareness and 
education on all types of eating disorders. Clinical therapists, a 
doctor, a professor of sociology, an individual touched by eating 
disorders and a parent will be available to speak on causes of cat- 



"Don'tTellMeHowtoEat!" 

— WalbG21 

Noon— 1:00 p.m. 



Friday 3/4 



Express Yourself" 

—Walb Union 
5:00 p.m.— 7:00 p.m. 



► AWARENESS: Page A2 



"Unfortunately, when you have this uianv people in one lo- 
cation, things like l li is will happen," Daugherty said. He also slated 
there are people other than students on campus n&gt; visit or use fa- 
cilities, He said altei factoring in all of the people on campus, the 
campus is still a very safe place. 

The departu lent urged anyone who is a victim of theft to re- 
port it immediatelv ■m^ call I'olice and Safely at IHI-6911 or "1B1 - 
6827. If credit cards or checkbooks are involved, they advised vlc- 
lims contact the lm.nu iul institution quickly. 

"If you see ;tny thing suspii ionsi all university police and we 
will check it out immediately." I laughertysaid. 



New bill 

benfits 

campus 



and Means Committee would 
offer IPFW increased funding 
for the next two years. 

The proposed 2006-07 
budget, sponsored by Chair- 
man Jeff l'splch, would provide 
$9.1 million In equity funding 
for state colleges. An undeter- 
mined segment of litis funding 
would be allocated to IPFW. 

Espich said the purpose of 
► BILL: Page A2 



Beyond the illusion: 
Drag with a message 



With music, dancing, 
dresses and heels, the Feb. 20 
Cabaret Show mixed perfor- 
mance with activism. 

Fourteen performers 
danced and lip-synched before 
a crowd of over 120 people for 
a three-hour show in the Ncff 
Auditorium on Sunday night. 

Dancing to songs as var- 
ied as Evanescence's "My Im- 
mortal," Britney Spears's "Tox- 
ic," Faith Hill's "Cry" to even 
a song from "The Little Mer- 
maid," the performers danced 
both on stage and in the crowd. 
During each number, the per- 
formers accepted dollar bills 



HOT 1 

the event. The dancers includ- 
ed the lormer and c 



(lav I! 



iswellasa first-ti 






performer. 

"Drag shows ; 
tegral part of e 
part of the gay community," 
said Jeffery Sterling, Chair- 
man and CEO or Equal Rights 
Education Network, the gay 
and lesbian student group on 

The idea of males imper- 
sonaling females "dates back 
to Shakespeare," said Sterling, 



formers, noting die event was 
a "very good draw for the com- 
munity." 

"1 love it," said Dennis 
Belton, one of the performers. 
As host, Belton "got no sleep" 



This event was the first 
time that Belton performed as 
a drag queen, though he said 

he had experience in karaoke. 
"They've talked me into 



ing to previous shows, "the line 
up was better," he said, with "a 
lot more talented performers." 

"I liked it," said Dawn 
Beaty, who also came from 
outside IPFW to see the event. 

"I usually have fun at all 
o( them," she said. 

Thee 




CABARET: Karmela Merlot performed at the EREN 
Drag Show on Sunday. 



an IPFW student in criminal 
justice. Coming to the event to 
support a co-worker, the show 
was "more of a variety than 
I thought it would (be)," she 



"I think ... a good 30 to 40 
percent is probably aware that 
we have shows," said Sterling 
of the IPFW student popula- 

Sterling cited the turnout 
as lower than expected. 

"The weather really killed 



the change of the show, n 
Its eighth year. 

While in the past die 

tance, "Now they're just x 



munitymore," he said. "Every- 
thing we do is more open i 
everybody." 



jxpected," said Haley Mills, Sterling commented i 



currendy in Congress. A pe- 



► DRAG: PageA2 



ipstii 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



Newsroom: (260) 481 -6584 
Fax: (260) 481-6045 
Advertising Dept.: (260) 481-6583 
E-mail: contact@iprwcommunicator.org 



Campus News A2 Sports 



ts &amp; Entertainment — B6 



vr: :. 






The Comi&gt; 


rlUNICATOR 

t^^^^^^J"' 

IPSNInc. 

Walb Union Suite 21 S 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne. IN 46805 


WHfflfll:fflBI 


Andrew Welfle 

Editor-in-Chief 

ijwortTaOlptwcommijnlcaior.oro 


k.e. Casey 

Managing Editor 


Newsroom / Editor 

(260)481-6584 


kocosaytilpfwcomrriijnicator.org 




Alden Bordner 

Advertising Manager 


Advertising 

(260)481-6583 


^rtn^Mptwcommunlato,^ 


Publisher 


Katie Pruitt 


(260)481-6585 


Copy Editor 

kprulttCiptwcommijnlcator.org 




David Hunter 




News Editor 

dcriumorCiplwcornmunlc3tor.org 

Kelly Royal 

Photo Editor 

kroyatOlptwcommunlcator.org 




umnmm 




Anthony Maurer 

Sports Editor 

tmaurerOlprwcommunlc8tor.org 


=HES 


Kelly Lynch 

A&amp;E Editor 

ktynchOipfwcommunicator.org 


Sw T«L"S Ipwuw" 


Brianna Belford 


KUaZ ™" * ""**"" "* 


Page Designer 

bberford©lpfwc ommunlcator.org 


^.sssz 


Steve Pepple 

Chief Reporter 

speppt«Oiptwcommiinlcfltor.org 


ConJ^LS'^LvTrj,^ 


Dorie Reynolds 

Publisher 

dreynoldsOipfwcomntunlcscxorg 


TJTl^ZZZt'" a,a "' 



Student visa regulations relaxed 



week will reduce obstacles to 
entry and study in the United 
States -- a relief to some foreign 
graduate students at Princeton 

The U.S. Department of 
Homeland Security announced 
Friday that students and re- 



fer, ed by ibis change. 

"If a graduate student wen 
back for a wedding or holiday o 
lo present a paper, they'd some 

their (reentry! visa cleared," sai( 
Diane Jones, director of the Of 
fice of Government Affairs fo 
the University. 

The long wait for security 



a Chinese graduate student in 
the physics department and 
president of the Council of In- 
ternational Graduate Students. 
"1 couldn't afford being delayed 
for a long time Itrying to regain 
entry into the United States]." 
Difficulties in gaining \ ' 



applic 



ranees of four years I Inder 
ions regulations students 
E required to reapply annu- 
and every time they reen- 



"A lot of graduate students 
that I know have trouble going 
to England or Japan for a confer- 
ence because of having to reap- 
ply forvisas," Man said. 

Long waits for a reentry 
visa sometimes lead to the clas- 
sification of graduate students 
as inabsentia, Redman said, ef- 
fectively placing them on leave. 

The University has been 
involved in lobbying for changes 



Tilghman and members of the 
Board of Trustees met with Di- 
rector of Homeland Security 
Tom Ridge to discuss easing re- 
strictions on foreign students. 

(ones said visa approval has 
seemed easier recently. "There 
! magazine, 



Jones said. "But we didn't hear 
anything from the State Depart- 
ment until this announcement." 
The new regulation affects 
visas obtained through the Vi- 
sas Mantis program, which was 
established in 1998 to manage 
security clearance of foreign stu- 
dents in technical subjects. 



EREN and Indiana Equality. 

Before the performance, a member of EREN gave a speech 
calling for a more active gay community. 

"When did il gel ibis had' asked David lb inter, speaking be- 



"It got this bad when we decided our rights weren't impor- 
tant anymore," said Hunter. He also commented on the "apathetic 

sleep" that he said characterized much nt ihe gay community. 
"We can't afford to be on break anymore," said Hunter. 
The next drag show will be held this spring as the Miss Gay 
e looking to get involved in EREN can call 804- 



it banned 1 1 [&gt;(&gt;■.. email tt&lt;u&gt;:rrHititli(i/int&lt;j , erviiiru:a 



and had fewer faculty and staff members with school age children. 
"At that time, part-lime care was a convenient and affordable op- 
tion for most," said Place, who has been the centers director for 
eight years. 

The advantage of a part-time center is mostly a matter of 
cost. Most full-time centers do not oiler pari time rates for child 
f the majority of students, staff and faculty only require 



of the current Juki tare program, which includes 
preschool instruction, is signila auih inexpensive in comparison 
with oilier pan -tin ic and lull lime centers. 1 be Child Care center 
is bmdeii hy the si mien I government and university fheregistra- chancellor and 
tion fee is $10 per semester, per child, and the care rates ran 
depending on the parent/guardi 



the campus and child care center. 

A new center could offer cooperative learning and observa- 
tion for student studying child care or related fields like psychol- 
ogy. 

High-quality child care for students and faculty is beneficial 
to the university, said Erickson, who has had her own child en- 
rolled in the campus center. "Adequate child care is a challenge 
for academic parents; a university with a good care will have a bet- 
ter draw of students and faculty." 

The task force's survey will be the first step in assessing the 



i and of the need, said Er- 






accrediiation and a license for 
and other considerations. 

Another requirement for full-time centers is provision of 
meals lor children. This would be the main expense beyond a new 
building, because of the delivery, storage and preparation cost in- 

Although" the prospect is distant, an accredited full-time 

child care center in a new hnil.ting would offer many 



The Child Care Center will adapt to the changes of the uni- 
versity, and respond to the needs li-.und in [be survey, according to 
Place. The center is already moving toward accreditation, which 
would require an increase in staff and classes and other National 
Childcare Accreditation Council quality standards. Place would 
which requires increased staff also like to add an infant care program, which would be possible 
following accreditation. 

Regardless of how campus child care changes, "The purpose 
provide quality care, a good atmosphere, and 



good response to the needs of parents," 

The Childcare Task Force survey (which can be found at: 

my.ipfw.edu and www.iphv.edu/ccsurvey) will be available for 
couple more months. The task force hopes to compile and re- 



rently unavailable. One possibility is greater cooperation between spnnd lo t bo survey before the end of the 



his proposal is to decrease inequities among the state's universi- 
ties. The two-year budget was drafted by the House Republicans, 
and passed by the House W,n sand Means Committee last Tuesday. 
The proposal will now move to the Indiana General Assembly for 



it adapting polity, not inn-casing funding lor these schools. The 
budget provide- linU- binding lor new buildings, repairs and main- 
tenance of campus buildings, in money tor general operations. 

Under the proposal. The Higher Education Commission 
would receive a library of 70 classes that could be transferred 
among state campuses. The llighet I ducaiion Commission al- 
ready has nearly completed 40-class library that is transferable 
among state colleges. 

Some legislators and educators are worried about the bud- 
get's ambition, given lack ol binding lor many schools. There is a 
feeling that making courses irausierable among colleges and ma- 
jors would reduce the quality of these courses. 

"We're concerned about how we move this forward, that we 
make sure this is set up in a way that students succeed," said J.T. 
f-nrbes, the direi iur of Indian, i I Iniversity state relations. 

The budget proposal also requires colleges to establish set 
tuition rates for two years in advance, as former governor Joe Ker- 
nan's college afford a hi lily task lorce had proposed last fall. 

litis regulation is intended io guarantee that students who 
choose this option will receive fixed tales for a two-year span, thus 
reducing the fluctuation of cost increases. Although these fixed 
rates may be slightly higher, they would eliminate surprise tuition 
hikes, for incoming students that select fixed tuition. 

The proposed bill would also change funding lor K- 12 schools, 
by determining school funding more closely to individual students, 
and then funding schools with increased enrollment. 

The bill would then cut funding for other 115 other public 
.schools for grades K- 1 2— in particular, school districts with Stag- 
nant or declining enrollment. 

Fort Wayne Community Schools is one such district at risk of 
losing funding. Under the current fU'CS enrollment, the proposal 
would cut the district binding hy about 0.5 percent. 



ing disorders, social influences 
and recovery. An informal 
question and answer time will 
follow "Don't Tell Me How to 
Eat" and lunch will be served. 

"The more education, the 
better. It is so vital. The more 
we understand how to shape 
a healthy body, a healthy self- 
esteem, and healthy relation- 
ships, the less chance a person 
has of developing an eating 
disorder," Tillapaugh said. 

Tuesday's events will in- 
clude informational displays 



d by the media, and how i 
combat them. It will also cover 
myths and misconceptions 
dealing with eating disorders, 
as well as a short video. 

Sponsors are also orga- 
nizing a "Celebrate EveryBody 



cultural expectations. Students 
wilt meet at Fireside Lounge in 
Walb Student Union at noon 
on Thursday, March 3. 

The final event planned is 
an evening of expression with 
a mix of art, music, poems, 
displays. 



7p.n 






first floor of the Walb 
Student Union will be focused 
on e, mug disorders. 

"This is one of the coolest 
events of the week, because it 
is really important for every- 
one to feel comfortable with 
who they are. Express Yourself 
encourages everyone to get out 
there and say 'Hey! This is who 
I am' and love themselves," 



Sarah Laib said. 



Loosening those 'iron hips' 




DANCE: Students and 
alumni took advantage of 
the special offer for salsa 
and merengue lessons 
sponsored by the Hispanos 
Unidos and Fred Astaire 
Dance Studio Tuesday, 
February 22. "You all have 
iron hips," said instruc- 
tor Mark Weisenburger, 
owner and operator of 
Fred Astaire Dance Studio 
( bottom, man on right). 
"I'll move you around and 
loosen you up." 
The cost for attendance 
with a partner is $8, and 
those attending alone 
are charged $5 (a partner 
will be provided). Future 
classes will be held in the 
Walb Union Ballroom at 
6:00 p.m. on the follow- 
ing dates: March 1,15 and 
April 4 and 26. 






UC-Davis students investigate 
chocolate of the past 



By Keli Senkevich 



i and cayenne pepper to flavor the final four- •■ 



lU-WIU! i [).\V|s. (alii. - Most palates prefer milk chocolate mv 

days, but 225 years atfo colonialists prepared thi'ir chocolate c 

coctions with ingredients like i innamon and cayenne pepper. 

Chocolate boasts a history ,is nth ,is its taste - one that ; 



participants examining tin.' various roles ol chocolate throughout 
history, such as its medicinal uses. 

On Monday ni^hi, while other si udents eclehrated Valentine's 
Day out on the town, 12 students from the class had a rare opportu- 
nity to make chocolate the wa\ colonialists did 22:i years ago •• us- 
ing the s.niie methods and tools. 

Jim Gay, a Historic 1 midways ol the ( olonial Williamsburg 
foundation scholar and chncolaic-inaket, ilew Irani Colonial Wil- 
liamshurg, Va., to guide the students through the process. 

"This will he the must expensive Uioeolaic you'll taste in your 
life," Gay toid the students lielore proi ceding. 1 ie estimated the stu- 
dents' final product would cost about SIOO a pound if sold com- 
mercially. 

Sporting traditional colonial utiie lot the demonstration, Gay 



"When you're shelling, you don't realize how hard it is to get 
every single bean separated,'' said tirsi year student FreidaYu. 

After cleaning a lew, the .indents sampled the raw beans. Lips 
pursed as the students des ( rihed the taste as strong" and "very bit- 

e refined substance 

The chocolate then took a different form, as the students 
ground the chocolate over a healed stone known as a metate. This 
transformed the powder-like substance into a chocolate paste. 

Gay and the students added a vanilla-sugar mix, nutmeg, cin- 



Each b 
chocolate is 

The colonial pioi ess ol i lioeolate-iuakiiig is generally n 
labor- intensive, taking longer than the two and half hours the stu- 
dents spent to prepare their version. 

Various chin ul.iti -in, iki 1 1 ; ; pioi esxesand i heir general history 



Conducted through the mm it ion department, the project is 
currently investigating the histoiy ol chocolate from 1565 through 
I'M I). Originally, theseope of the project focused on chocolate's role 
in America, but has sun e expanded globally. 

The Chocolate History Project consists of 20 researchers 
around the world, including those at UC-Davis, looking through 
various archives anil otliet ■historical documents to better chronicle 
the history and role ot chocolate. 

Beatriz Cabc/on, a specialist in Kali century Spanish, has 
transcribed Spanish dot mnenis, in, [tiding those ol the Inquisition. 

She has found that individuals used ihoeolalc in love potions, 
which the church eondeintied as black magic. Chocolate's strung 
taste is thought to have disguised tin' detection ol other poisons in 
the potion. 

Louis Grivetti, national coordinator fur the Chocolate History 
Project, works full time on the endeavor and said one of the more 
interesting aspects ot &lt; hueolate is that its consumption as a solid 
began in 1H2H. 1 listoru ally, cliiuolate has always been a beverage 
-- even given to soldiers in conllicls such as the Revolutionary War 
lo keep them alert. 

Grivetti said seveial hooks will he the result of this intensive 
research as well as a website. 

Gay, who led (he chocolate -making demonstration, is also a 
collaborator on die project. 

"It's not just 'let's make chocolate,'" Cay said, "l-ets learn about 
chocolate." 



Texas book bill would standardize texts 



By Jimmie Collins 

! u n i vi' mi ty Texas- Austin) 



; textbooks may get cheaper 



; purpose behind it i 



quire all teachers of any one core 
subject to use the same books 
and editions, but would also re- 
quire diem to use that edition for 
at least three years. 

"I agree there may need to 
he some homogeneity, but there 
should be some area of freedom 
of difference between classes," 
said Craig Wheeler, University of 



could be updated 

significant changes in knowledge 
or technology. 

"If Uiere is something that 
students would lose by not hav- 
ing the correct textbook, then 
we want to be able to prevent 
that with this provision." Herrero 

In fields such as astronomy, 
there are constant advances, 
making it impractical to require 
keeping a textbook for three 
u-ars. Wheeler said. 



(oi&gt;p president, said that the bill 
wouldn't effect the Co-op's busi- 
ness in a negative way. 

"I think the bill would be 
great, because we wouldn't have 
to be ordering as many new 
hooks," Mitchell said. 

Some professors are con- 
cerned with the bill's infringe- 
ment on the freedom of teaching 



Their 






"I would support it as long 
as it is more of a strong guideline 
rather than a rule," said Gary Ja- 
cobsohn, a government profes- 
"The presumption for 



dents recover someol ihect 
their books with sell backs. 

George Mitchell, University demic freedom." 



'Mr. Indiana History' 
remembered for 
dedication to his 
work at Indiana U. 



(U-W1RE) BLOOMINCl'ON, 
Ind. - "Four one-room red brick 

schools, Union Township. Shel- 
by County. 1914-21." 



lU-Purdue University at Fort 
Wayne. He was the director of 
the Lilly Program in History In 
1961 and chaired the 1U Com- 
mittee on Historic Preservation 
for more than 20 years begin- 



orable gamut from t 



under the subtitle "Education." 
The 95-year-old Indiana 
University professor emeritus, 
known to many as "Mr. Indiana 
History," died Monday, but he 
will live forever in the house 
he helped build -• the halls of 
Indiana's history. 

IU history professor lames 
Madison, a longtime and close 
colleague of the historian, said 



- in lite held man lied 






r In- 



I annony 

"Hew 

dlana history, and was It for a 
long, long time," Madison said. 

Carmony's father taught 
him each of his first eight 
grades in those one-room red 
brick schools. He graduated 
high school at 15 and became 
the first college graduate In his 
family four years later. He be- 
gan teaching at Indiana Central 
College, now the University of 
Indianapolis, at 19. 

The beginning of Carmo- 






llle a 



. He \ 



e of the Uni- 
versity of Indianapolis for 40. 

The professor finished 
his final book, "Indiana, 1016- 
1 850: The Pioneer Era," In 1 998. 
But Carmony's granddaughter 
Diane Carmony, on IU alum- 
na, said her grandfather was 
proudest of his students. His 
love of history, she said, came 
from an affinity for educating 

"He was very much a story 
teller," she said. 

Carmony was certainly 
considered one of the foremost 
authorities of Indiana around, 
as evidenced by his four books 
and dozens of articles pub- 
lished. But Madison said the 
historian balanced his knowl- 
edge with a good dose of hu- 
manity. 

"He was an honorable 
gentleman, a straight shooter," 
Madison said. "He was very 
courtly and kind and yet he was 



Lafayette. "The work they did 
was really like the pioneer pe- 
riod. It's amazing this person 
that lived in the 21st century 
really almost lived in the pio- 
neer period." 

Carmony graduated from 
IU with a master's degree in 
1931 and a doctorate In 1940. 
His work at the University be- 



" and was just as much 



Public services for Car- 
mony will be held on an unde- 
termined date at Meadowood 
Retirement Community, 2455 



MARCH 2 : FREE SHOW 




Campus " 



Calend 




Alumni Board of Directors Meeting: 

KT 176, 6 p.m. For information, 
call 16807. 

Athletic Event: Women's Basketball vs. 

Longwood University, GC, 7 p.m. For 
information, call 16646. 

Free Public Lecture: Dolores Huerta, 
Cesar Chavez's "most trusted advisor." 
CM 159, 7 p.m. For information, call 
260-426-2882, ext. 307. 

Biology Department Senior Seminar: 

"Biomagnification of PCBs in Aquatic 
Organisms," Spencer Ritenour; "Roads 
as Barriers to Natural Populations: Their 
Effects on Amphibians," Kevin Bear. 
SB 1 85, noon. For information, call 
16305. 

Kickoff Reception: To discuss IPFW's 
Student Research and Creative Endeavor 
Symposium, ET Lobby, 1-3 p.n 



Saturday Sessions at Mitchell Books: 
Jane Grant, "Community, Democracy. 
and the Environment: Learning to Share 
the Future," Mitchell Books, Covington 
Plaza, 1 2:30 p.m. For information, 
call 16165. 



Information Table: KT lower level, 10 
For information, call 16647 
15748. 



SAB Event: Wacky 3D Photos, 
KT ground floor, 1 1 a.tn.-3 p.m. For 
information, call 16590. 

Student Peer Education and Wcllm 
Meeting: GC Royal Dons Room. 
7:30 p.m. For information, contact 
rence_centcrsfaJhotmail.com. 



For information, call 16646. 



Eating Disorder Support Croup: 
WU 234, 6:30-8:30 p.m. For 

information, call 16647. 

22 Stop Smoking Support and 



i, 7 p.m. For information. 



Concert: Symphonic Wind Ensemble 
and Fort Wayne Area Community 
Band, Embassy Theatre, 7:30 p.m. For 
information, call 16714. 

College-Level Examination Program 
(CLEP):KT 232, 8:30 a.m. For 
information, call 14153. 

Spanish Table: jVert a convenor y 
comer con nosofros! (Come eat and talk 
with us), WU Cafeteria, noon; bring a 
sack lunch. For information, call 16689 
or e-mail confortm@ipfw.edu. 

Anthropology Luncheon Lecture 
Series: "Laic Palcoindians and the 
Regionalization of Culture in the Great 
Lakes," Andrew White; KT G46. noon. 
For information, call 16272. 

Black History Month Events: 
For information, call 16608. 

* "Black Men, Black Women. Do 
We Have Anything in Common?" 
WU 114-116, noon-I:30 p.m. 

• No! A documentary by Asihah 
Shahidah Simmons, Fort Wayne Cinema 
Center, 437 E. Berry, 7:30 p.m. 

Great Jeans Cive-Away Donation 
Table: NF Lobby, 5:30-7:30 p.m.; also 
Feb. 24. ET Lobby, 8:30.-10:30 a.m. 
For information, call 16647 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Thf G:\VIMUN1CATOR 



Podium 



Opinions • Editorials • Letters 



Wednesday. Many 13. 2005 



W 



^■o 



\*fc*2i2* 







,o*v\ 



WHS** 






Kelly Lynch / klynch@ipfwcommunicalor.ofg 



Staff Editorial 



Kyoto Agreement: Between a rock and a hard place 



While it is often an overlooked issue, the envi- 
recently made quite a few headlines in 
both world and local news. 

Last week's ratification of the Kyoto treaty sig- 
naled if nothing else a symbolic demonstration of a 
new consciousness of the effects of greenhouse gases 
on the planet. 

The Kyoto agreement set goals to reduce the 
amount of greenhouse gases (such as carbon mon- 
oxide, among others) put into the atmosphere by 
countries to 1990 levels within the next seven years. 

While this has been a plan many years in the 
making at the United Nations, President Bush decid- 
ed to withdraw the United States from the plan in 
2001. The United States is one of die world's major 
polluters (in fact, it is the top polluter), and the pro- 
tocol is now fatally weakened. 

President Bush was not without his reasons to 
withdraw: he estimated the cost of implementation 
to be $400 billion and the potential loss of 4.9 million 
jobs. Instead of joining in the binding rules of the 
treaty, Bush has offered "incentives" for companies 
to reduce their emission rates; however, such steps 
remain largely voluntary. 

When it comes to politics and trying to improve 
the environment, it appears that the public could be 
quite literally stuck between a rock and a hard place. 



On one hand, it is important to keep a strong 
American economy. On the other hand, it is clear 
that the United States has a problem with pollu- 
tion. A 2003 report from the Energy Information 
Administration report that "6,935.7 million metric 
tons carbon dioxide equivalent" were released in 
2003. 

So many factors must be weighed in the deliber- 
ation of environmental policy that it almost appears 
stagnant. Any attempt to learn about current pollu- 
tion rates ot theories on how to help the environment 
is met with a dizzying array of theories and opinions, 
many times ferociously opposed. 

Closer to home is no better. Congressman 
Souder's energy policy says nothing about working 
towards new forms of energy. Instead, as his policy 
states on his website {http://sauder.house.gov): "An 
adequate source of energy is the life blood of Indiana's 
economy. Without greater access to new sources of 
oil and gas, our businesses and industries will not 
survive. I will continue to work to ensure that enough 
energy to power Indiana is always available." 

What is not said is the fact that neither of those 
fossil fuels will last forever, and even with drill- 
ing in the Alaska Wildlife National Refuge (which 
Congressman Souder supports) no stop-gap can fix. 

Souder basically leaves his constituents depen- 



dent on an energy supply that will someday run out. 
Perhaps it is because it will run out after he leaves 
office that he is not concerned. 

There is progress being made in the least likely 
of places, however — Fort Wayne, the city with a deep 
manufacturing heritage. Mayor Graham Richard has 
said that he wants, according to a report in the News- 
Sentinel, "to make Fort Wayne more environmentally 
friendly." The mayor listed several items to help the 
environment of Fort Wayne, including: purchasing 
seven hybrid vehicles, re-paving parts of the river 
green way, and promoting "environmentally friendly 
construction," according to the News-Sentinel arti- 
cle. While the only concrete part of the plan includes 
the city's purchase of seven hybrid vehicles, at least it 
is a step in the right direction. 

But even here we find that environmental issues 
must be compromised. After all, if Fort Wayne wants 
to attract more businesses, is it too forward to sup- 
pose that they will be granted ail kinds of special 
favors and leases from the city? 

The environment is still being sacrificed in the 
name of progress, but whole new industries can be 
developed in the search for cleaner energy that could 
lead to new jobs. With the positive steps taken at the 
United Nations and even here in Fort Wayne, the 
chance for a green future may exist after all. 



LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Don't forget about IPSGA 
elections during spring break 



up trips to lahiiU.ns spiing Imak locations like 
Cancun, Miami, and So Cal. However, spring 
at IPFW should not only known for fabulous 
spring breaks, it should also be known as that 
time of the year when the student body is given 
the responsibility of electing the officers of their 
Student Government. 

Most students' attitudes toward the elec- 
tions are unenthusiastic, if not pessimistic 
Whether it's because these students do not care 
about involvement in their university, or just 
because they don't have ihe Unit; to get involved, 
everyone should keep in mind that it does not 
take that much time to read the flyers and just 



dent events diat IPFW hosts, the amount of fund- 
ing that student organizations and clubs have, 
the amount of funding that IIT'W student related 
depart mums are given, and not to mention the 
basic underlining siruciuie • &gt;f li'l'W. So, if you 
are ,n all concerned annul (he most basic student 
functions of IPFW. maybe you should make it a 
point to find out which candidate you think will 
ins! represent your ideals for our university. 

How about this: go and have a fabulous 
time on spring break, and then when you return 
to IPFW, make it a point to get involved in this 
year's IPFW Student Body elections. Your involve- 
ment can vary horn attending posted forums and 
visiting campaign i allies, to just reading the mas- 
sive onslaught of flyers. 

Your life, education, and campus involve- 
ment are only as good as the amount you put 
into them. IPFW is your university; make the 
" your college career by getting involved in 



Sincerely and respectfully, 



It's obvious that if you are still reading 
this, you might have a slight concern about this year's Student" Body 
who gets elected this year, and that is a good 
thing. Student Government positions require an 
immense amount of responsibility, reliability. 
and integrity. 

The IPSGA elected positions should be 
taken seriously, because the power that each 
elci red individual Imlds is immense, these elect 
ed officials have a great deal to do with the stu- 



Lamar Dixion 
Nathaniel Hubley 



Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed do not 
necessarily reflect the views of IPFW, its employees or its student body. A column is 
solely the opinion of its author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses. Letters to the Editor must be sinned, dat- 
ed and accompanied by a current address, telephone number and class standing/major 
or title (if applicable). Letters not meeting these requirements will not be considered for 
publication. All submissions made via email will be verified by telephone or in person. 
Addresses and telephone numbers will not be published. 

Submissions must be typed, and no more than 700 words. The editorial board of 
The Communicator reserved the right to edit all submissions for length, grammar, style, 
and clarity. Letters deemed potentially libelous by the editorial board will not be pub- 
lished under any circumstances. 



Just say no to bad drug policy 



Staff Column 

By Steve Pepple 
spepple@ipfwcommunicator.org 



eign, i 

over the years, especially the last couple, but it is people from using blow and iiink, how can it 
networking. And although the problems of drug stop others from selling it? We should not for- 
use and trafficking are multifaceted and com- get; one third of American will try illegal drugs 
plex, the main failure of America's current policy Shouldn't •Xnierieaii's who believe so fervently in 
is its focus on supply-side of the system. the demand-side of the International economy 
Perhaps supply-side enforcement seems create a policy that does better at curbing the de- 
facile, because it focuses our efforts outside the mand-side of drug economy. 
U.S. or on the border. But no amount of supply Now. I'm not suggesung sweeping decri mi- 
enforcement outside the country has curbed nalization for drug offenses or legalization of il- 
drugusc. And even the war on external drug traf- licit drugs, although these options should not be 
fickersis bleak: for every large drug cartel that is off the table. 

brought down, several other small start-ups are The approach of many European states and 

Canada to limit demand- 
side drug consumption 



obliged to fill the 
Of 









If U.S. government cannot 

prevent its own people from 

using blow and junk, how can it 

stop others from selling it? 



whelmingly 



When the 

cal institutions and offi- 
cials request money it is 
usually lor issues, butthe 
emphasis is always the 
money. Issues are only . . 

a formality need to pick 
the taxpayer's pocket. Once institutions and or- 
gani/aiions have received their funds, their next 
step is to squander these funds, while the issue 
culminates to require more money. 

In the last quarter centwury taxpayers have 
paid $25 billion dollars toward the war on drugs, harm- reduction strategy for 
Yet the wholesale prices of heroin and cocaine Red addicts are enrolled in safe inject 
are even lower than they were twenty years ago. where they receive safe fixes and rece 
Shouldn't the price of 






.sllll. 



follow the Vietnam War. 
For example, harru- 

reduction programs seek 

not to prosecute or dis- 
regard druggies, Inn rather allow these individu- 
als to get their fix in secure and sterile environ- 
ments, therefore reducing crime, overdoses and 
the spread of disease. 

Vancouver, Canada has just instituted a 
. Veri- 



decreased in- 
jections, as they complete their treatment. The 
purpose of this program is to wean addicts off 
drugs and crime, thus making them productive 
members of society. 

American policy makers have re so tingh 

rejected this strategy, saying in effect that it only 
The problem as statistically shown, is that encourages drug use and addiction. The current 
nation's drug policy has little-to-no bearing drug Czar has gone as far as calling l.uropean 
S drug consumption. Except pro- and Canadian strategies immoral." What the 
Czar and other policymakers fail to acknowl- 
edge is that immoral drug policies are working 
remarkably better than America's. 

At the heart of America's stagnate policy is 
i conflict that both drug traffickers and drug e 



flation? 

In the past 25 years America has increa.' 
spending on drug control from SI billion to ti 
current $30 billion, these funds went direcdy ti 



nderground drug market, just as it hap- 
ilh alcohol prohibidon. 

: foreign stage: the advances of 



ago, but the Drug smuggling infrastructure has 



part of drug polio 
advances. Much like the fight against as long as the various sides of the tunllkt and 
AIDS, the virus and symptoms evolving before law have so much profit and stake in their post- 
they can be treated, traffickers and users seem to tions. 






Musings, or, politics to ponder deeply 



As the World Turns 



Higher education: 
What are we doing 
here? 



. i»iu«it Bush recently sat down with 
a host of European journalists invited to the 
White House and answered questions re- 
garding American policy in relation to the 
Middle East, specifically regarding Iran. Got 
that? Good, because punch and cookies 
were served later in the afternoon. 

I made thai last line up. lust wanted to 
keep you on your toes. Here are some mus- 
ings that this press conference inspired in 

1. Coming on the heels of Condi Rice's 
clever little line in the last few weeks that 
an assault on Iran was not currently on the 
agenda, Bush reiterated this position and 



Oh really? You never want a president 
to say never? Funny...! was under the im- 
pression that a sizable amount of American 
citizens would love it if he used that term. Of 
course, this Bush statement is actually less 
troubling than Rice's statement a while back. 
Not currently on the agenda? This would, of 
course, imply that at one time it was on said 
agenda, which would mean that in the recent 
past our government has actively looked at 
involving the country in yet another Middle 

It's not that I have a problem with the 
government having contingency plans for 
various scenarios. It's understandable. How- 
ever, Rice has a habit of just tossing lines off 
like they're all just afterthoughts. Apparently, 
that's what a conflict with Iran is: an after- 
thought. 

Oh, it's important enough to consider. 
t the American people 



Keep in mind that a war with Iran 
would necessitate the resumption of a draft. 
We simply wouldn't have enough troops to 



is long .1 



The administration, 

thai any -on nl Jr. ill is political career suicide 

.although dim'i think that a lame duck presi- that lews 

dint hiisn't seriously considered the possibil- than everyone- else Let's call this 

gencticism 1 his hearkens back 10 Na/.i t ,er- 



donefbrHim. 
Amazing. 

I he Iranian theocracy makes it ,1 racial 

well. They siill perpetrate the myth 

somehow genetically different 



nuclear weapons. Of 



nukes if everyone 
around them has 
them? Well, except 



Ward Church a mindless ™ Sl^Z', 

moron. For those Of yOU Who should he eliininat- 

don't know Ward from Winston, u 4 f ™ (md lhc fQCe of 

the latter coined the term 'Iron America is not 

Curtain.' The former called mn "v- 1 theocracy... 

the workers in the World Trade EL£» M 

Center 'little Eichmanns.' and he u take .1 holy 



Israel does have them, however. And 
this point alone is going to cause worry and 

l particu- Winston, the latter coined t 



Thoughts: 



courtofpublicopinion. I daresay they relish the World bade (enter little lichm.mns." 
theirrole as provocateur u! irritating pnliues \dolf l.ichmann was. of course, the master- 
However, Israel has shown they will use force mind behind the Na/.i "Final Solution" re- 
when they feel so moved. If Iran docs get garding the disposal ol 'miliums of huropean 
to nuclear capacity, you'd heller believe the Jews. 

Israelis would be sitting on the edge of their If you lost a friend or family member 
seat, just wailing for a reason to bomb the at the W IC in the traced v ol &lt;IM 1. well, con- 
crap out of whatever nuclear facility in Iran gratulahons to von vVanK htm hill thinks he 
that the Israelis know about. or she deserved to die. 

Some history regarding this: Iran wants Churchill teaches at Colorado. Both 

to see Israel wiped clean off the map, driven the governor of that fair state and political 

into the sea and all that ■ .,,.... 

nian mindset, there's nc 

[predominately) Jews to exist. This is what position there. 
religions fanaticism nets you: the dominate It sets. i hideous precedent to fire some- 
belief that not only is your religion heads and one just because you don't like what he said, 
tails better than everything else viol there, but The First Amendment allows the freedom of 
it's yourGod-given duty to convert the mass- speech, even if it is as worthless and stupid 



your view point, whether h\ peaeeluln 



t don't have violent means, \lier .ill. i.od doesn't ,, 



Death and journalism: the eternal debate 



Vance's Views 

By Dan Vance 
dvance@ipfwcommunicator.org 



I distinctly remember not wanting l&lt; 
write this week. Lately, the choices hav. 
been pretty small. 

Bush or the budget? War or taxes? 

Either way, not a lot going on in th&gt; 






1 these days that the a 



is on the right hand page discussing 

sort of foreign policy, 1 am sure. And Katie 

Pruitt, she covers mostly everything else. 

So here I am, past deadline, cruis- 
ing for something eye-catching to ramble 
about. CNN is no help. My choice of head- 
lines from the worldwide leader in "news" 
are about the death of country singer Bon- 
nie Rait's father, Prince Charles's wedding 
and Jeff Gordon winning the Daytona 500. 

Big news week. 

And then I find a top story buried in 
the sidebar. Hunter S. Thompson, the fa- 
ther of "new journalism" has committed 
suicide. Finally, exactly what I needed for a 



I mean, it is what we as journalists 
do, isn't it?. Wei exploit the pain: and suffer- 
ing of qihers.for.arj .extra fivejgrfluj; column. 



» force of n 

No. not the Ben Affleck movie "Forces 
of Nature," that just sucked. 

When it comes right down to it, jour- 
nalists would rather cover the death of 
someone famous than write a game sum- 
mary for the local high school badminton 



papers, I knocked everything down a step 
when someone overdosed or got fired. 

Take a few pills, get a pink slip; it's the 
quickest way to the lead story. None of us 



triumphs and downplay the tragedies. But 
something in our heads won't let us. Call it 
ruthless agression or insecurity; it's how 
we do things — usually. 

So, someone famous has commlt- 
i ,ted suicide, I guess I have a column now. I 
guess that I can write a few hundred words 
on how Hunter S. Thompson impacted the 
lives of this generation and play him up as 
a genius. And, at the same time, I will have 
to mention his suicide often. That is what 
would make the column better, isn't it? 

Or, maybe I should take the high road. 
A really solid, practically unknown journal- 
ist once said, "I will pave the road less trav- 
eled, so that you the future may travel it." 
Maybe it is time that we as journalists start 
taking that road now and let go of our past 
advantages and discrepancies. 

And I suppose that if someone has to 
try and lead that trend, it can be me. I mean, 
I don't really have anything else to do. 

Oh, by the way, wasn't that a great 



For the Write Reason 

By Katie Pruitt 
kprultt@ipfwcommunicator.org 



i about the Daytona 500? 



Political correctness hinders cultural pluralism 



Casey at the Bat 

By Katie Casey 

kecasey@ipfwcommunicator.org 



here's an easy way: try and talk about diver- 

The topic is hard to work into a con- 
versation, but it is worth the effort to see 
how quickly people can become defensive. 



stereotype. 

This is why I find the Campus Climate 
Survey, completed last week, misguided. 
The survey, available through my.iphv.edu, 
has been extended and is still available for 
the taking. If you are reading this column 



that have fallen v 



before taking the survey, I would encourage 

," otherwords students to stop reading and take the sur- 

o business-speak. vey and decide the quality of the questions 



Instead of talking about diversity, foryourselfheforereading thiscolumn. 



people repeat phrases they heard in class o 
on television. They make generalized state- 

s diversity" 



If you have taken the survey, i 
I to agree that some of the questions 
have the right idea: "How often do you 



or "diversity is important io us." I hey make think the following occur at IPFW?" asked 
no concrete statement of how they want to one question, which then asked the user to 
increase diversity, but b\ saying the phrase rate statements such as (he following on a 
they are able to check a box on a list some- scale of one to five: "Students from diverse 
backgrounds interact on a regular basis." 
n important factor to monitor. 



tell what the word 



A member from the NAAPCP and rendered the 
callin e the KKK would both be concerned undertaking 






complete re- Here's 

of the word with diversity, but for wholly "ipfw 
different reasons. 

the questions off of 



of few students who actually enjoy these 

One of the other questions asked the 
user to rate this statement: "As a student 
at IPFW, I am concerned about diversity 
issues." A member of the NAACP and the 
KKK would both be concerned about di- 
versity issues, but for completely different 
reasons. It is for this reason that the survey 
is a disservice to the student body. 

The diversity committee could have 
spent their time on other matters, conduct- 
ing a better form of research than this sur- 
vey. A different kind of survey, perhaps with 
hired pollsters, could get a better sample of 
the student body. If the Diversity Council 
wants to make a change, they should do so 
in a different manner than this online sur- 

Students should take the initiative to 
expose themselves to different cultures; let 
the university flounder around with state- 



diversity" from 
English language. 
People who actually 



; though I be- the c 



Education 

how Utile you realty know." 
I thought 



d proceeded from there. 
1 was doing line until last 
a dangerously 



myself i 

ies class. There w 

nal struggle this I 



about cutting ourselves down double- majorers. Writing will 

as it is aboul building ourselves still be my locus, but the worn- 

up because it is all about per- en's studies background I will 

spective. acquire will give me something 



tBlvi 






I've grown used to the 
uncertainty. I curl up with 
it at night and breathe in 
its familiar scent. I wrap 

myself up in all that I 
don't know. I'm not afraid 
to be confused anymore. 



than the 
end Itself, 
which I 



gain, the | 

more frequently I lose my men- two degrees—and 1 

tal footing and realize just how the engineering in 

tenuous my lonneilion In dial si ieuee majors, the, 

knowledge really is. majors and even some of my 

Isn't knowledge what fellow English majors don't 

we're all seeking here? No, it's wonder the way that I do. They 

degrees, careers and money, have maps, routes and deslina- 

Imagine if it were just knowl- tions. I only have maps and 

edge, though; pretend thai routes. I don't know where I'm 

we're all at IPFW to discover going. I will recognize It when 

some things we didn't know I sec it, though, the same way 

and some things that we never I recognized women's studies 

will- -because that's ultimately when I ri 



il happens toils whether n 
Bit Of ML 



i the 



a while, writing and I were like 
stat-crossed lovers, kept apart 
by pride and assumed cxpecta- 



i/ing how little you know . 
yourself. 

.1 thought. 1 (wold t 
high si Iniol I atinandkeep 
ing as a hubby, but il turn 
that Uitin is really the li 



I hung all my hopes on writing whet 



e as education because, like 
», I still haven't found what 
a looking for— but I'll know it 



Have something to say? 

Anything you just 
have to respond to? 



Make your voice heard. 

The editorial board of 

The Communicator wants to hear 

from you. 



letters@ipfwcommunicator.org 

or mail to: 

Walb Union, Ste. 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



letters to the Editor should be 

thoughts directly 

Union, or email them to |etl«s**i 

is needed solely for verificaiioi 

standing (if applicable) will be 



s held on Feb. 12; David Baker from IU 



i the response from 



o talk about diversity should specify 

what kind of diversity they mean. 1 am as- your 

suming that when IPFW talks about "diver- to fh 
sity" what they really mean to say is to have 

a host of different cultures. strut 

But this meaning is lost under the thes 

specter of "diversity." People are so afraid How can a college make you feel as 

of being labeled thai mosi people just stop if you belong? As a freshman, your classes 

talking about the subject; they close their are weeding out those who cannot keep up 

minds and keep to their routine. with the workload. As you progress through 

Wecannottalkaboutdiversitybecause your credits, the classes become increas- 

undemeath the altruistic veneer suggested ingly difficult, and with more responsibility 

by the word, there lies accusation. During I would hardly call college a homey atmo- 

a conversation, one side must be devalued, sphere. 

one side vilified. A dialectic is created when In a section of the survey where they 

we talk about diversity because it Is the only ask to "indicate your comfort level with 

way we can simplify the complex, amazing your personal experience i. 

array of cultures into an easy-to- categorize setting at IPFW" in such a&gt; 



Bin, iigiui 



■I ol \ 



; gave a per- 



formance. Nikki Giovanni was featured &lt; 

the Omnibus Schedule — and that is just a 

few of the events at IPFW available to stu- 

I don't see why the "Social Climate 
Survey" had to take place at all— IPFW 
seems to be doing a great job at bringing in 
other cultures to the university. If students 
want to find cultural events, they can. 

But a checkbox is a checkbox, and I 
know a column in a college newspaper isn't 
going to change anything, lust look care- 
fully the next time you see the word "diver- 
sity," and ask what they are really trying to 
say. The constant use of this outdated word 
makes cultural awareness stagnant in the 
face of political c 



please 

RECYCLE 

THIS 

NEWSPAPER 



w 






AIDS still 
major 
societal 
problem 



By Danica Killelea 



(IJ-WIHI jSIOItHS.t onn.-Th&lt;iugh 
the lliri.il r&gt;r (he AIDS virus seems 
(o have decreased slightly over 
the years, ilie disease is shll miiie 
prevalent, according lo an AIDS 
edui al urn Web site, I INAIDS I loint 
United Nations Programme on 
HIVMIUS] Che .irliele estimates 
Ihat as of Ileeemhei ..'ODD, there 
were .in estimated 36.1 million 
people living with HIV/AIDS In- 



i 'hiding 



million adults and 
1.4 inlillon children under IS. Ac- 
cording to the &lt; Centers for i lisease 
Control, in the United Stales i here 



siale testing should t, 
cities and other areas with large 
populations (lie U.S. government 
had initially recommended test- 
ing solely in large cities, but some 
healih care experts are recom- 
mending that nearly all Anient ans 
he tested lor the virus, according 
to an article in the Hartford Cent- 
rum. This would mean Ihat every 
American would have to either 
have blond work done or have 
their oral fluids tested at a local 
health clinic. 

Though it may seem costly. 
two recent studies found that the 
cost of routinely testing and treat- 
ing people for AIDS in the U.S. 
would he outweighed by a reduc- 
tion in new infections and a great- 
er ability to start people on treat- 



lul." said Student Health Services 
Director Michael Kurland. "But 
for people with no risky exposures 



testing should bi 
cision, and that ( 
s anonymous t 



&gt; said that AIDS 
an individual de- 



useful in this c 

UCotm students have access 
to confidential AIDS testing and 



Kurland, the 
ite among col- 
lege -audi'iits stands at a rate of 
two students per every 1,000 and 



liiiiinl this List week in New York. 

This new form of HIV was 
found for the first time in a 40- 
year-old man It is mote harmful 
than most forms of the vinis be- 
cause of two unusual features: It is 
resistant to antiviral drugs and de- 
velops from an infection into full- 
blown AIDS in several months. 

According to an article in the 
New York Times, die infected man 
tested negative lor the virus in May 
2003, but then tested positive last 
Investigators believe 



arc usually lound within patients 
who have taken antiviral drugs 
over several years, according to a 

llanloiil i 'mi, mi arm lc 1 bis man 



i outlined about this recent aids 
information. 

"This shows how careful you 



the international 

needs to come together and work 

harder to find a cure," -aid Mike 









find 



at least some small &lt; 
in the news. "This information 
should boost our research for AIDS 
and give more motivation to find a 
j Matt Pasuuanello, 



2nd- set 



r landscape architect 



Anne Kane, a 4th-semester pre- 
pharmacy. "People need to do 
something." 

please 4_ 
recycle m^\ 

rii is \w 

NEWSPAPER! 



Now, 

there's no charge 
for incoming calls, 







L -(Even ALL of Mom's 




Now, 



when people are wasting your time, they're not wasting your money. 



Unlimited CALL ME Minutes 





* 



US. Cellular 

We connect with you'. 



anc*nMm^(«tf«ij&amp;D*j*-wr*^rrtmrt(*^ptoUn- — ■■■-■ 



nygai tat ot S39&amp;5 a tof* 



m c*ng aa Local cafcuj aea « 









THhCoMMl'Xn AlOK 



Sports 



In house coverage 
all that IPFW needs 



In All Directions 



We all know who they are. They 
sit on press row ai every IPFW 
men's basketball home game 
and they ask redundant ques- 
tions in every press conference. 
And they are ruining the good 
name of IPFW athletics. 

So here is my plea to those 
other two "big" newspapers: 
cover IPFW and then shut up. 

The fact of the matter is 
that no matter how good a paper 
you think that you have, you 
don't have the resources or cor- 
rect information to delve deep 



sport they do 

I understand that poking 
and prodding is the journalistic 



pushed Former men's basketball 
head coach Doug Noll until he 
made negative comments about 
a player and situations that were 

At the other newspaper, 
another columnist recently 



of our ath- Well, I c 
Vou should mencai 



actuallv leave that tt 

Now, at this point I don't 
think that I even need to men- 
tion how neither the Journal 
Gazette nor the News Sentinel 
covers anything other than men's 
basketball. I think we all know 
that Arnie Ball, Kelly Hartley. 
Bruce Patterson, Eric Bums and 
a plethora of other coaches and 
programs deserve love, too. 



to pay a visit to the Milliard ( ,ales 
Sports Center, they would see 
how the IPFW athletic depart- 



► IN HOUSE: Page B3 



Simon: Brawn and brains 

■ Senior Center David Simon honored as CoSIDA District V 
Academic All-American for 3.32 GPA 



2/23-3/2 ► 



In .'rfl ''hi 



wrsity's perspective, There is t 



(list in I All -Amenta 11 mi I In' aeademic level. 

A chemistry/pre-med major, Simon is 
currently holding a i..Y2 grade point average. 
Joining him un the Distritl V team arc Drake 
Diener iDcl'aul). Dan Uppland I Valparaiso), 
Neil I'lank (Illinois Stale) and Dennis ii.unmell 
(Hall Slate). District V includes universities in 
Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, Wisconsin, as well 
as Ontario and Manitoba in Canada. 

"You look at some of the names on there 
and you have lo have some goes who are pro- 
ductive on the court and in the classroom as 
well, so it say a tot about Dave," said Interim 
IPI U head com h |oe Pechota, 

To be eligible for die honor, the athlete 
must possess a (ll'Aof at least \.2 and he a strong 
contributor to their team. Sports Information 
Ditei tors from across die region made nomina- 
tions for the honor. Of those nominated, the 
same SID's voted to name the top five. 

"I think it is very important from the uni- 



DAVID SIMON 



anything to get (he school's 

al level is good. They already 
know about us because of 
basketball, so this Is just 
another avenue," added 

Simon. 

All five of the players 

who make up 



Wed. 23 ■« Valparaiso, 



Tue. 22 ■ « University 




about things like this. It's good for n 
them that i can succeed from what they v 
trying to teach me growing up," said Simon. 



Mastodons rebound against Islanders 



St. Louis 78 - IPFW 66 



IPFW 77 - TAMCC 69 



free throws cost IPFW game 

I the St. Louis Billikens sank 23 free throws from the free throw 
line, which propelled them to a 12-point victory over the 
Mastodons. 



By Eric Mishler 



The Mastodons traveled to St. Louis on 
Wednesday to try to record a win on the road 
:or the first time in two years. 

Defeating the Billikens would have given 

lien's team their second back-t 
vii.imv this year. However, St. Louis hit hti 
percent of their shots from the field to shut 
iown the Mastodons 78-66. 

Izik Ohanon led the Billikens \ 
joints and Ian Vouyoukas added 18 of his 

i go with his seven boards. Luke Meyei 
14) and Dwayne Polk (10) were also in doublt 
Igures. 

The Mastodons also had four players ir 
iouble figures including David Simon with IE 
joints and eight rebounds. Peter Campbell 
;i4), Byron Malone (13) and Beau Bat 
vere the other high scorers for IPFW. 

Even though the Mastodons v 
cored 36-20 in the paint, IPFW hit 11 of 18 

Right: Peter Campbell 
was 5-9 and 4-6 from 
three-point range for 14 
points against St. Louis 
last Wednesday. Camp- 
bell put up another 17 
points in the win over 
TAMCC Monday night. 

FAR RIGHT: Senior David 
Simon scored 15 points 
and pulled down 8 re- 
bounds against St. Louis 
University last Wednes- 
day. Simon recorded 8 
points, 8 rebounds and 
4 blocks Monday in 
the Mastodon's victory 
over the Islanders. 



from behind the arc including four from 
( ampbell and three from Malone. St. Louis 
might have had a slight edge down low but 
the Mastodons had a 30-point advantage 
from downtown.' 

The Billikens led for most of the first 
half but IPPW went on a 10-2 run at the end 
of the half to pull within one. The Mastodons 
took a brief lead in the second half 
t was the charity stripe that led to their 



s than the Mastodoi 



Ol'l-M,, 



- factors in this 

, rebounds and the fact that St. Louis got 
s help from their bench than IPFW 
did. The Mastodons got nut-rebounded 32- 
19. and St. I 

I he gap from the bench v 



Solid defense brings victory 



November 2004. The Mastodons earned that 
honor with a 77-69 win over Texas A&amp;M- 
Corpus Christ] on Monday. 

The win helped IPFW double last year's 



:r,inil- win ai home on il 
third win since being r 
coach in )anuary. 



I'eler Campbell. I he red -shin Iresl in went 

on to mention the attention that TAMCC is 
gelling right now based on their record and 
some of ihe teams that thev have delealed. 

The Islanders, who beat the Mastodons 
71.1. 1 on leh. 2, came into the cimiesi l'i it 
Wins earlier in the season for 1AMCC include 
over Old Dominion, Texas Christian and 
Florida State. 

IPFW opened up an early lead on the 
shooting effort of sophomore Dean Ifauer 
While ihe Masioilons nit holes in the Klandei 
offense ol one end of the floor, Bauer was 
dropping threes on the other end. Ihe shoot- 
ing guard ended ihe night "i-ol-i) from three- 
point range with 18 points. 

"They were not going to let Dave beat 




*:/t'.i : ; ij 



E^9 



IPFW splits at Golden Dome Classic 



On Saturday, the Mastodons bounced back to defeat the 
Scarlet Raiders of Rutgers in four matches. IPFW lost the first 
game 25-30. but came back to sweep Kutgei 



No. 5 ranked IVini Stale s.vrpi IPFW in three c 
matches last Friday nlgln In ihc Golden Dome Classic. The Ni- 
tany Lions improved thru mmsoii reenrd m 2-0 versus the Mast- 
odons, hearing them liy scores of 1(1 JH. 10 -28 and 30-22. 

Three different I inns tin dmihli--digii kills in the match. 
leff Proper led iht'in ivith IV hlk and rij;h[ digv Mail /.liys/cwski 
lead the charge for ll'l W with I :; kills and Hi digs in the match. 
Brock Ullrich had nine kills and seven digs, finishing second be- 
hind /hys/ewski on statist its lor i he night. 

IPFW recorded nmn le.nii hlru ks than the Lions, chalking 
Up nine versus Penn Slate's seven Mike Maiga led the Mastodons 
in set assists with 36. 

The Win improves Penn Slate's record to 10-2 and drops 



i the night, with 24 kills 15 digs, ; 






a also spiked d 
tt Mike E 



o blocks and 10 block z 
nine kills in the match. 

e match against Rutgen 



digs and five block 

The victory improves IPFW's overall record to 6-5. and keeps 
them favored in the win column going back into conference play 
this week The Mastodons match up against the Cardinals of Ball 
Slate University Friday night. 

Ball State is currently fifth ' 



e conference with a 






► CLASSIC: Page B3 



Setter conflict: unresolved 



head ouch Arnie '. 
find a replacement for Dennis 
Santiago. Santiago left after last 
season to play overseas, open- 



Ball feels that the level of 
compeiition and effort is el- 
evated through the two player's 
uncertainty over who will ulti- 
mately win the position. This 
can also be seen as beneficial 
to the squad as a whole. 

The situation also gives 
Ball's team more depth and 
strength at the setter position. 
With either Randolph or Daiga 



ihe Mastodons, which , 
have been his fourth straight 
lettering season at IPFW. 

Potential suitors for the 
position include Mike Ran- 
dolph, Dan McNerney, Steve 
Rogers and Mike Daiga. Cur- 
rently, The main two competi- 
tors for the starting job appear 
to be Mike Randolph and Mike 

Officially, there is no per- 
manent decision as to whom 

the starting setter will be this 



we have two guys that if one 
guys having a bad night the 
other guy can play." 

Ball is taking the situation 
one game at a time, and feel- 
i ing out .the best player for the 
position. "Right now they both 
bring different qualities to the 



vith pect a good perforr 
It al 



ates a dependency t 

person if an instance arises 

such as an injury. 

To date, Randolph is lead- 
ing the assist category for the 



as oil el) 21,2005). 

Randolph has played in 
17 matches, nine games and 
has started in seven. Daiga has 
played in 10 of the Mastodon's 
11 games to date. He has also 
started two games, and played 








IS 

d by Brenda Jones / bjones@ipfwcommunicator.org 

RANDOLPH: Junior Mike Randolph currently leads 
IPFW with 383 set assists this season. Randolph is 
► UNRESOLVED: Page B3 averaging 10.35 assists a game for the Mastodons. 



il matches thiss 

Ball has expressed a need 
or both players to continue to 
mprove, despite the fact that 



^ 



IPFW Intramural 
basketball results 



Top Ten Scorers 



Games Points 







Tuesday 
Team Score 

3 def. 8 44-33 

5 def. 7 43-40 

4 def. 1 73-42 

6 def. 2 73-36 



Wednesday Nights 



Wednesday 
Team Score 

2 def. 6 93-38 
5 def. 7 61-36 

3 def. 8 100-13 
1 def. 4 61-38 



bring a different dimension t 



Mon Mori 
2v6 4v1 
5v7 3v8 



Feb 21-23 
7.00 PM 
8:00 PM 

Feb 28- 

March 2 
7:00 PM 
8:00PM 



Mon Mon 
3v2 8v1 



Tues Tues Wed Wed 

3v8 4v1 2v6 3v8 

5v7 2v6 5v7 4v1 

Tues Tues Wed Wed 

1v6 2v7 3v5 2v7 

3v5 4v8 1v6 4v8 

Tues Tues Wed Wed 

4v5 8v1 4v5 6v7 

2v3 6v7 2v3 8v1 



OFF THE COURT thrcsh ER 



This week, Eric sits down to talk to ASHLEY "AJ." JOHNSON, Starting Point Guard fo 
the IPFW 2004-2005 Women's Basketball team. 




EM: Did you have a valentine this year? 

AJ: Actually, I did have a valentine. Nietee's nephew Jaden made me 

some candy. We went to Burger King and played on the playground. 



E^3 



Women lose to Longwood, defeat 
Texas A&amp;M-Corpus Christi by one 



back attempt. 

With jusi over six minutes to play. IPFW trailed by 13 points. 

With the IsKiiuliTskMiiinphj -tin after a layup by LindseyVan 
Dom, Lewis-Carlisle was tooled liy kirbria Lewis while attempting 
a layup. The basket was good knotting the game at 62 with eight 



Saturday. Texas A&amp;M Corpus Christi fell to the Mastodons a 






weekend, £ 

On Thursday, IPFW came out strong early, hitting four first 
half three-pointers I hnugh shunting 10 percent less from the 
field than their opponents. IPFW led 35-3 1 at the break. 

Longwood bounced back in the second half on the heels of 



seven rebounds. 

IPFW missed three c 
arc to start the second half. The i 
wood to get a little closer in the c 

Johnna Lews-Carlisle continued her streaky shooting, hit- 
ting seven shots from the field and scoring a team-high 19 points. 
Ashley Johnson added 12 for the Mastodons with four steals. Verea 
Bibbs recorded a double double with 16 points and 10 rebounds. 

The loss to Longwood dropped the Mastodons to 3-19 on 

Looking to rebound from a loss to Longwood, IPFW invited 
The Islanders to Hilliard Gates Sports Center. 

Once again, the Mastodons jumped out to an early lead on 



game, however, tough defense forced Andrews in try adespera- 
r high 18 points to lead TAMCC, but 



i-shot that 
Van Dorn scored 

the Islanders shot just 7-of-l 1 from i lie tree throw line. In 
parison, the Mastodons shot 13-of- 15 from the charity stripe. 

Lewis-Carlisle led the Mastodons .ig.tin with 111 points Hihhs 



had nine points and six rebounds while Molly 
bench with five points and four assists. 

IPFW will close the regular season on Saturday, hosting 
!e\,is I'm American. 



offtl 



The Islanders shot 1 l-of-33 in the first half and found tl 
down 34-26 at the break. 

The second half on Saturday looked a lot like the second 
half on Thursday for the Mastodons. Poor shooting plagued 



1 



Countdown to 1,000 

IPFW senior guard Courtney Nicley has scored 986 
points in her career as a Mastodon. She currently has 
a career average of 9.8 points per game. 

14 101 354 

points to go games played shots made 



Dildy among applicants 



draft pick. 

Dildy has recruiting connec- 
tions in the Chicago area. 

An assistant at Mississippi 
since April 2004, he has already 



ended the night with foui 



basketball coach Tracy Dildy 
has applied for the IPFW men's 
coaching position. 

Dildy, 38, has been an assis- 
tant for 15 years, but has never 
held a head coaching job, 

His resume includes being 
an assistant at Auburn for two 
years, DePaul for five, Ball State 
for three and his alma mater, 
Illinois-Chicago for three. 

Widely knowrrforhis recruit- 
ing skills, Dildy was responsible 
[standing recruiting c' 



future NBA player Quentin 
Richardson, who was both 
Conference USA Player of the 



IPFW has two players from 
Chicago — Charles Campbell 
and red-shirt sophomore 
DeWitt Scott. 

D.J. Posley, a senior point 
guard at Homewood-Flossmoor 
High School in Chicago, has 
signed his letter of intent to 
play at IPFW next season. 

Scott said he -has- known 
Dildy since he was 14-years- 
old and was recruited to play a) 
DePaul by him while he was ar 



I Campbell. "They 



As a team, the Mastodons 
were 6-of-15 from behind the 
arc in the first half. From inside 
the arc, they were an addi- 
tional 8-of-10 in the opening 
half. Campbell hit three three- 
pointers in the game to help 
his 18 points. 



A solid defen: 
backed up 
and Campbell * 






the offensive side. IPFW forced 
13 Islander turnovers before 
the break. The rough turnover 
t TAMCC and coach 



Dildy also recruited Bobby 
Simmons and Steve Hunter — 
both current NBA players. 

While at Ball State he recruit- 
ed Bonzi Wells who went on 
to become the Mid-American 
Conference's all-time career 
scorer and was a high NBA 



Scott's former 
coach is Dildy's cousin. 

"He is a good guy, a great 
person," Scott said. "The big- 
gest thing 1 like about him is 
that you can talk to him about 
anything." 

Scott said Monday (Feb. 
21) was the first time he heard 
about Dildy's application for 
IPFW's head coach position. 

"He knows what he is doing," 



Ronnie Arrow to the locker 
room frustrated and down by 
school three, 

"I think in the first half 
ve played some of the 



and a 6-7 overall record on the 
year. IPFW is in third place with 
a 4-2 record in the MIVA to go 
along with their 6-5 overall 
standing. 

Loyola and Ohio State are 
at the top of the MlVAat the mo- 
ment. Loyola has a conference 
record of 6-0 and an overall of 
12-1. Ohio State is 3-0 in confer- 
ence play and 10-4 overall. Lew- 
is, which defeated IPFW in their 
first MIVA conference match of 
the season, is in second place 
with a 6- 1 mark in the MIVA and 
a 7-6 overall standing. 

Two players made the 
2005 All-Golden Dome Clas- 
sic Team from IPFW this year. 
Daiga was accepted into the 
setter position, and Zbyszewski 
was elected as an opposite hit- 
ter. Brian and Eric Honsburger 
were selected as the outsides 
hitters. Both are players from 
Rutgers-Newark. 

Keith Kowal was selected 
as middle hitter. Kowal is on 
Penn State's squad. Fellow Ni- 



tany Lion Matt Proper v 



best defense that we played all 
year. We were just helping each 
other out and getting after it," 
pbell. 

first half on both side 
ball, Pechota was not content 
with his team's play in the first 
half according 

e stiil up three 
so we got to go,'" said Simon. 

In the second half, the 
defense kept TAMCC at bay. 
Simon was strong inside, block- 
ing a couple of shots put up 
by Islander post 



ond half, the Mastodons led by 

Sophomore Byron Malonc 
helped shut down a TAMCC 
run late in the game. Malone 



"1 think the intensity for 
everybody was better," said 
Simon. "We went out there and 
just played," 

The Mastodons struggled 
with free throw shooting late, 
allowingTAMCCtokeep " 



Season leading scorer 
Simon finished with eight 
points on l-of-5 shooting from 
the field. Simon hit 6 of his 
10 foul shots. The Academic 
All-American also has eight 
rebounds. Quintin Carouthers 
added 14 points, including a 
big put-back windmill dunk in 



ESPN College 
Hoops 2005 
inaccurate but 
revealing at same 
time 



The Tiger's Pen 

By Anthony Maurer 

tmaurer@ipfwcommunicator.org 






dli.df. 



t will be in action 
at home again this Sunday as 
they host Texas-Pan American 
at 6 p.m. The Broncs beat IPFW 



Simon earlier this s&lt; 



Classic team. From Ohio State, 
Daniel Matthews was selected 
as setter for the last selection to 
round up the All-Golden Dome 
Classic Team for 2005. 

The Mastodons will have 
chances at revenge in upcom- 
ing games this season. They 
face Penn State again on March 
12 in Pennsylvania. Also, they 
will be able to avenge their loss 
to Chicago-Loyola on April 1, at 
Chicagt 



And do you know why? Because 
those papers and their writers 
don't care about IPFW or its stu- 
dent-athletes; they don't take the 



sion.il newspapers. 

And between our editor 
Tony Maurer, writers Nick West, 









r IPFW 



They will have another 
opportunity to beat Rutgers, 

when the two squads play again 
the 15th of April. ~" 



sports. So can an argument e 



possibly 
doing it better? In this depart- 
ment, we have a dedicated staff 
of five {and then some when 
Hilliard Gates needed). We all have IPFW expe- 
:00 p.m. rience and, combined, we have 









road. This mea 
three out of their next fo 
ference matches will ; 
away from home. 



Part Time Hours. 

Full Time Pay. 



s of both players' starts so 
far in the season. 

At the Golden Dome 
Classic, Daiga started all three 
games as setter in the loss 
against No. 5 Penn State. Ran- 
dolph played one game in the 
match, but did not register on 

Daiga started and played 
all four games in the match 
against Rutgers-Newark in the 



didn't appear to play in the 

Randolph was instru- 
mental in the Mastodon's vic- 
tories over MIVA opponents 
Findlay and Quincy, putting up 



; last three matches, 



I there is no per- 
:r for the squad 
main this way for 



This is the perfect job for students or anyone looking for a full or part 
time job. Gain valuable safes experience while working for a fortune 
500 corporation. We provide paid training, salary + bonus opportunity 
and management trainingopportunities.lf you &lt; 



a good work ethic then a 



Contact lim Miller 



TruGreen ChemLawn 



Many college students pegged to David Simon. 

and athletes love to play games Apparently, ESPN forgot 

where their teams are repre- that Simon was second among 

sented, all centers in i ollege hist season 

ESPN College Hoops 2K r , behind UConn's Emcka Okafor. 



of those games 11 yon 
either perform well enough in 
legacy mode, or open the team 
option during nn open season, 
you may s 



Mastodon logo. 

Considering 
that IPFW does 
not have a foot- 
(thanks 



Also, for 






earns best outside shoot- 
can't knock down a three 
ive his life and has a long 
e rating of 60. 



for nothir_ 
IX), there are few 
opportunities to 
sec digital versions 



"Considering 
thatlPFW does 

not have a 

football team 

(thanks for 

nothing Title IX), 

there are few 

opportunities 

to see dgital 

versions of 

some of our 

classmates here 

in Fort Wayne." 



people don't even 

Thank Cod 
for one saving 



player's abilities 
would be true to 
form, but this Is a 
little too much of 
oversight to go 



i mil ed 



be 



indeed does play the populat 



Simon the announcer of at the home 

», he Is games almost sounds like Rudy 

too good to have an overall rat- Yovlch if you listen closely 

ingin r In high 70s (7&lt;i). enough. 

Having played the game One tiling I would like to 

through the season more than add, if possible, would be the 

once, and accumulating a 20 IPFW "Tar Pit" a.k.a. the "Beer 

.win season, I found myself still Line". They're great. 

of the NCAA tournament in I guess some of the imple- 



Checking the simulated 
RPI. I found that the team had 
ended die season in ihedoseto 
20 (10), and had won big games Hut, I hoar he can throw 

against Notre Dame, Air Force down, which is pretty impres- 
and Marquette. sive for a 6-foot guard. 

What was the problem? It Is also cool to see Beau 

The problem was that although Bauer drain 7 straight i 



All of the teams that were 
ranked were in a conference, 
Many of them were perennial 
favorites such as Duke, UConn 
and Kansas. Sadly, even III had 
made the rankings in my simu- 



around threes from way behind 



even a small Division I school 
such as IPFW would get fairly 
accurate representation. 

Maybe someday the 
Mastodons will get the accurate 
virtual versions of themselves 
in video games. 
Granted, it is only a game, I would argue that the 

but the pressure arid influence players themselves wouldn't 
of conference affiliation still mind giving ESPN their statis- 
poppedinto my head upon fur- lies so they can input them Into 
ther reflection. thearhfiti.il inieliigence engine 

This would be, if noth- (granted that may be a little bit 
ing else, an indication of how biased). 

important conference affilf- In the meantime, 79/10 

ation is to even a successful virtual Simon has 26,7 points 

team bereal IPFW. per game and an average of 8.7 

On the other hand, the rebounds, and 60/100 outside- 



simply because you don't care 
and we do. In-house coverage 
is all that we need here and The 
Communicator has that cov- 



ATTENTION RESIDENTS OF 
IPFW STUDENT HOUSING 



If you are a resident of IPFW Student Housing, 
you may participate in our 30-minute survey and 
receive $5.00 cash. We are conducting research 
on how people think and feel about the groups they 
belong to on campus. In this phase of the research, 
we need to obtain responses only from students who 



All student residents of IPFW Student Housing are 
eligible to participate. There are NO other exclusion 
requirements based on gender, age, handicap status, 
or any other criteria. The research project will take 
place only in classrooms or laboratories on campus 
that are handicap accessible. 




fflffl:;" 



C3 



Results from Boilermaker invitational 



This past Saturday, (lit- ivumtn's track and field 
team participated in the Boilermaker Inviiational ai 
Purdue University. 

The Mastodons managed only one individual win 
mi the afternoon. 

The single victory came In the 800 Meter run, 
whercValerieHardesty finished at; 1 . 28. 16, a second and 
a half In front of Hathel Yant/i nil .oshen College. 



Jessica Thymus ,nnl Amber Kas/.owski plated thin 
and fourth in the 800 for IPFW. 

Despite the l,n k of fir-i plate finishes, there wer 
several runner-up placements. Ihe first of those was il 
the 60 Meter Dash where Kan Arnhurgy placed second. 

Madclon Manine/ also phned. tied in third 
two other runners l.iSh.iuna Harris of Purdue woi 
event in 7.68 seconds. 

j placed second in the mile 



r-up in 10:22.25. Pctrana Petkova c 



the event in 10: 18. 8."), juM four seconds ahead of R 
Lauren and Kristen Simpson also placed. 

Other placers for IPFW in the running area 
l-.rica Kepp, who plated third in ihe &lt;ii)f&gt; meter ni 
Martinez (third) and Allison Sjtiler (fifth) in t 






Loree Grimm, Nicole Crone and ! 



weight throw, as did Babette K 

The track team's next meet is 
Disney Relays in Orlando, Florida. 



Simon 'feeling better' after ACL injury 



I bothering I like it did 



and then, but all (hat pain z 
the beginning of the season i 



i points of five &lt; 

sions, including 24 and 27 

point outbursts against Texas 



vithdraw 
draftee pool and return to IPFW. 
NCAA rules would have prohib- 
ited him to return for his senior 
year if he had signed an agent. 

Simon had surgery and 
was walking on the knee just a 
few days later. After two weeks, 
he was rehabilitating the knee 
with leg strengthening, balance 



bition and four regular season 
games, his doctor cleared him 
to play. Simon made his return 

n Nov. 26, a home game against 



healing process, obility, stabil- 
ity, pivoting and sudden move- 
ments^ — all keys to a basketball 
players' game — are limited. But 
Simon was practicing with the 
team by late October and back 
on the playing court in late 
November 

In a Dec. 11 home game 
against Tennessee-Martin, 
Simon made a move in twhe 
paint and landed awkward on 
his other knee. 

He jogged back down the 
court grimacing and clearly 

former IPFW head coach Doug 
Noll called a timeout and took 

Simon outof the game. Ati 



said. "But I just came off a 
majorinjury. But if I come back, 
i need to be able to play." 

Even his head coach 
called him out in a local news- 
paper after Dec. 23 game, say- 
ing V 
ed I 
tailed him "horrible. 

Noll was referring to 
Simon's defense on Maine's 
backup center. Mark Flavin. 

points and 



inflated. 

If he had not declared for 
the NBA draft, participated in a 
camp to impress scouts 

and personnel directors 



and Northern 
Colorado. 

He has averaged nearly 
eight rebounds and 3.5 points a 
game - all signs that he is recov- 
ering I rum injury. 

He was averaging 15.5 
points, 5.5 rebounds and 
2.4 blocks in his previous 14 
games. 



an NBA pre-draft camp last lune 
The then 21-year-old declared 
himself eligible in May after his 



"1 do think it was a little 
early from an aspect that obvi- 
ously 1 wasn't myself," Simon 
said. "But it was getting back 
to the level I am at now. It 
was difficult because those first 
games back were kind of my 



immediately examined Simon's 
left knee, fearing the worst. 

"It was just a minor injury 
to that one," Simon said. "I 
just kind of twisted it." Simon 
returned to the game a few min- 
utes later. He scored 22 points. 
grabbed 14 rebounds and had 
three blocks and two assists in 
35 minutes. IPFW still lost. 63- 
61. 

Simon said he feels some 
people expected him to be back 
to his pre-injury playing form 



■ne before that. The 
made Simon feel 
alienated. 
"I don't think it was as 
bad as he made it out to be," 
Simon said. "You can't look 
at the box score. I might not 
have been guarding him all the 



times when he v. 

shots when I was o; 

side and nobody wi 

behind me. I think it was a little 

unfair to generalize." 

Simon admitted he was 
not very confident early in the 
season. He shied away from 
contact, was afraid to jump for 
rebounds or go into traffic for 
baskets because he was afraid 
to land on the leg. But as the 
season progressed, his pains 



"I believe in fate, yes," 
Simon said. "I'm not exacdy 
sure why this injury happened, 

but everything happens 
for a reason." 

Though his confidence 
has increased as mirrored by his 
statistics, Simon thinks his play- 
ing level is still behind where it 
was last season at this time. 

The off-season was Five 
months long, the length of his 
rehabilitation process. While he 
was balancing on the injured 
leg on a small trampoline, his 
teammates were honing skills, 
running wind sprints and lifting 



nfidence diere." 



Mastodons 
open 
season at 
EKU 

IPFW Sports Information 



weekend of play at Eastern 
Kentucky University. 

IPFW will play Eastern 
Kentucky on Friday, Feb. 25 at 
2:00 p.m., Bradley on Saturday 
at 10:00 a.m.. and EKU again 
on Sunday at 2:00 p.m. All 
games will be played at EKU in 
Richmond, KY. 

The Mastodons are com- 



"ii! &lt; 



I" (hen fir- 



going Ok 



finishing 20-31 in 2005. 
are excited to get outside and 
compete" said sixth year head 
i oath Billy Gernon. 

IPFW will feature some- 
thing it hasn't had a lot of in 
the past— experience. The ball 
diamond will be covered with 
veterans, with six seniors and 
18 total upper-classmen. 

The Mastodons will be led 



Granger, IN. Steinbach led the 
team with a .359 batting aver- 
age from the shortstop posi- 
tion. Zachary was 5-3 on the 
mound last year and will start 
on opening day for IPFW. 

The probable rotation 
for opening weekend will be 
(in order) senior RHP David 
Zachary, junior RHP Keegan 
Laycock, and either junic 
Eric I 
Kill' I 

Following their three- 
game set a EKU, the Mastodons 
will travel to Bradenton, 
Florida, from March 4-12, for 
10 games at the IMG Academy. 





THEXYZSOFTHE 
X CHR0M0SONE: 

Department of Theatre 

Chair at IPFW, Larry L. 

Life (far right) looks on 

as actress and IPFW Arts 

and Sciences advisor 

Robin Grissom (top) 

and actress Nakiesha 

Pearson (right) perform 

their respective parts in 

Eve Ensler's "The Vagina 

Monologues" during 

rehersal at the Plymouth 

Congretional Church. 

The Vagina 

Monologues can be seen 

this Saturday, Feb. 26, at 

8:00pm at the Scottish 

Rite Center, 431 West 

Berry Street 

Students: $10 

Regular: $35 




Fresh Faces, New Stories, 
Same Strong Message 



i IPFW Director and the Fort Wayne Women's 
Bureau Team Up for Second Showing of 'the 
Vagina Monologues' 

By Kelly Lynch 



The "Vagina Monologues," presented I his weekend for the 
second time hv Uie l-'nri W;iyne Women's Bureau, is not simply 
a unique production for its content, but in the ever-ch;niging 
vvav in which it is presented to the public. 

No two showings are alike, and the show's director, IPFW 
department ol theatre chair, Larry L. Life, decided his second 
take on the long admired monologues, would be no exception. 
Life has incorporated new, relevant performances, and expand- 
ed the number of actresses involved. 

It's wonderful in the way it comes together, says Life of the 
show. 

Many have criticized the play, its contents, and even its title. 

"Controversy," Life explained, was never a part of the first 
show. There just wasn't any.. .If you don't like it, stay home and 
don't see it. It's not for you." 

For those interested in the play, Life describes the show as a 
celebration. 

"Women will relate completely and men will learn a lot. ! 
know the two times I've done this, I've just learned so much 
from the play and the actresses, and from what they bring to 
the show. 



: 



Art form demands (not damns) discussion 



State of the Arts 



with Uie brush, there is something in s.iy about 

It's not a groundbreaking, uirulinv sti, ill fl- 
ing, cupcake baking realization, hut the fact is, 
an in itself always has something to say. 

Take "Vagina Monologue^ " | In nik' it sell 
is no doubt enough to draw double takes and 
lure into the open perverted jokes about the 
female anatomy. Its certainly enough to get the 
Catholic Chureh upset In fact, its title has been 
abused in countless news articles, where jour- 
nalists, hoping to lure reader's eyes and make a 
stylistic point, have done this: 

Vagina. 

They've spotted the word in mid-story, 
forcing it into a sentence all by its lonesome. 
Why? It's a cheap trick and I am not absolved 
from it, however I reckon there is a subcon- 
scious reason for this We know it's going m gel 
attention in a way that this word would: 



Why? How d 



j have a life ol ii 



own:' Honestly, I ihiuk it's because we empower 
it, positively or negatively. 

At the University ol Noire Dame, Catholic 
Bishop lolin D'Aivy has publicly expressed bis 
disapproval nt the university pulling on the 
show. It's not the first time the play has been 
staged there, bill it is the first time author live 
bnsler has been invited to speak. 

Things get murkier here, as Ensler is a 
pro-choice at mist and Notre Dame is well, a 
religious institution. 

On a side note, I can't help but state that 
there seems to be a rash ol speakers in America 
being mid they i an't cleat their throals in forums 
ol higher learning because their views, past his- 
tory or tie color aren't in accordance with the 
rules. It happened in l-ort Wayne last year at 
the University ol Saint l-rancis and D'Arty had 
ihings to say about that as well. 

Critics of "The Vagina Monologues" ,u 
Notre Dame describe it as a literary form of 
violence against women. Many, after reading 
the script and nm viewing the play, find it lo be 
pornography and nothing else. 



Courtney Tawiesey, 
School Right to Life, had this to say in The 

i Ibserver Tnslei u nisi be prolubiled Iron i speak- 
ing on Ihisi an i pus, and I tie Vagina Monologues 
uiusi also be banished from campus There is no 
room for hesitation with this mailer. I he play 
and busier are radically opposed lu die Iriilh of 
Catholic teachings, and provide on iulellci Ilia! 



loroiii iiii delidle. bill the university is hosling ,i 
session in which the author ol the play and stu- 
dents like you can talk about these issues. 

D'Arcy. in his denouncement of the play, 



made aboui the 
play "Corpus Christi," which II'PW hosted a 
lew years ago. Il lea lured a gay Jesus Christ and 
homosexual Apostles l rilics forgot that, while 
defensive, the play was simply a play and was 
nevertheless not starling ils own religion Ibis 



play, like the "Monologues," has succeeded in '■ 
what art tries so desperately to prove; Some . 
things have to lie talked aboui and these art '. 
forms want to discuss it. 

It's a shame thai instead of asking quietly 
for attention, topics such as these have been _! 
forced into having little choice when il comes 
to being noticed. They have to fire the meta- ;; 
phoricai gun in the proverbial crowded room lo *• 
get anyone to notice People siil) run for cover.' ', 
( libers blink and simply carry on. 

I urge critics ol these plays (and what they ' 
represent) to lake a moment and realize that p 
the world is not perieci, and before it can he 
"saved," il has in accept that ihey cannot shove ; 
an unsightly thing under ihe carpet and place a , 
shiny bible in Us stead. 

s like these, opportunities for 



Ins 



growth and understanding c 
less, ignorant discrimination. 

Just one of the many things that 6 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



JnitedC 

Art and Education 




LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



Join our warehouse team in a fun, friendly environment. 

■ Work part-time now/full-time in the summer. 

■ Duties include order filling, m^*™ «m.i &gt;,. a i»ii 

■ Starting at $7.50/hour. 

(MMita£&amp;&amp;Mfl 

United Art and Education • Monday • Friday 9am5pm • 4413 Airport Expressway 



We I&gt;o Mondays 

Like No Place El$&lt; 



Ivaji*a 



Enjoy a double 
order of fajifas 
(enough for iwo) 
for jusi *11! 

And 10 oz. original Top Shelf and 
Caribbean Margaritas are only *2* 





For* Wayne ■ 317 E Coliseum Blvd. ■ 471-2979 



Moo* be a* learf 21 ) 




The G )Umunioyior 



Arts 



Performance • Musk • Fine Arts 



Sprina 
^'FeVer' 











1 &amp; 1 




^v 






*L2* 


Ik 






"Hay Fever," a play by Noel Coward, opens 

at IPFW's William's Theatre Feb 25, and will 

run through March 6. 



LEFT: Ernsberger, Matthew C. Peterson 
(Simon) and Frazier. 



HAY FEVER 

Admission for IPFW students with I.D. is free 

to all Williams Theatre performances. 

Admission is $12 Adults, 

$9 Seniors 

$10 Faculty/Staff /Alumni/Arts Advocates 

$7 All other students with ID, $10 Groups of 

10 or more 

Call 260-481-6555 for ticket information 



'Guerilla' documentary digs into familiar trenches 



By Kelly Lynch 



Teach your children well. 

This wise saying, taken from 
name by Crosby, Stills. Nash (an&lt; 
in the back of my mind after seeii 
Hearst." 

The song never appeared i 
rock song of the era that would r 
soundtrack to the siory of the violence, radicals, kidnapping and 
romanticism that blanketed the (:0s and 70s. 

Many of us view history through objective eyes. We know 
what we're told, what we read and what we see in pictures, but 
it's the context, the essence of historical events (hat many of us 
t grasp. In "Guerilla," the context is searing and evi- 



ihe de\il\ business and i 
SLA could get the world's , 
ideals, they could do som 



I of kidnapping belorc the 
1, in their twisted, left-wing 
e some change, and start a 



stage tor 



by America's youth 

of the generations defining nents. College kids 

killed at Kent state and in Vietnam, and Nixon represented 
points out in the documentary. "1 grew up being 



Without quest t be film is ama/inglv relevant today. Is this 

history repeating itself now and today, with Iraq and President 
Bush, and a lot of angry souls crving lor justice''' lust as the "hip- 
pies" were products o! the warriors of the l!l40s, we arc the off- 
spring of the left, right and in-between. We weren't borne into a 
clear-cut situation, black and while, United Stales Good, Commies 
bad. Our current situation is somewhat more convoluted. 

The film makes a human drama of newsreel footage and 
interviews with people who played parts and watched at the side- 
lines of the actions ol the SLA once they kidnapped Patty Hearst. 
newspaper heiress to Randolph Hearst. 

The SLA communicates with the publii via letters and audio- 
rapes. They demand the craziest of all ransoms: grocery stores in 
t give a" 



Millet: 



distribution . 

e'd saved the world from Hitler, but then we became A distant Patricia Hearst, throughout successive audio tapes, 

denounces her family and her upbringing, breaks up with her 
fianc£ and slowly but surely explains that she has joined the T 



"Guerilla" tells the story ot the Symbiouese Liberation Army, 
a small task tone nt disenchanted, rebellions young people who 
wanted to kill the "fascist insect that preys upon the life of the 
people.'* Their enemies were the ones with power, influence and 
money. Establishments and puppets of the system were doing 



and is not longer a prisoner ot war," but a soldier named Tania. 

Many believe she has been brainwashed, victim to Stockholm 
syndrome, made to pose for pictures with the group and given an 
unloaded gun to participate in a bank robbery. In later years, as 



e film, Patricia states she was told to pose for the 
robbery or she'd be shot. Testimony by witnesses and lip-readers 
(for the entire event was captured on security cameras) state she 
was swearing, ordering people around, and one with the group, 
tint a guarded victim. 

The quandary that is the SLA and its newest member moves 
from San Francisco to LA. Innocent people have been murdered 
along the way, members have been caught and killed, robberies 
continue. The SLA remains a mystery, and its remaining members, 
still young adults and college age kids, lind refuge and garner sup- 
port and law enloivenn-ni &lt; ontmues its pursuit. ■ 

The ending is must peculiar, covering the capture of SLA 
members and "Tama' herself, in wliti.li she gives a wrenching dis- 
position, making herself mil as an injured, frightened victim. She 
soon returns to the limelight, her prison sentence remitted, and 
returns to the lifestyle she once damned. We're left to wonder: Was 
she for real in her criminal adventures realizing after her capture 
she could claim innocence, escape punishment, and return to 
luxury? After all, would a victim tell ibe hooking officer after her 
arrest that her occupation was "urban guerilla"? 

"Guerilla: The hiking ol i'aitv Hearst" is an engaging lesson in 
history, and an informative film about America, terrorism and how 
a band of kids had the country by the ears for two years. 

The film is extraordinary and unflinching, equally irking 
and interesting, and should be required watching for the left, the 
right and the middle. There's no sense in militaristic fantasies and 
romanticized violence performed in an attempt to change the 
world, but then again, there's no sense in not trying. 



Symphony player teams with 
IPFW Wind Ensemble 



IPFW News Services 



The IPFW Symphonic Wind ensemble will perform with 
guest artist Mike W. Roylance during their winter concert con- 
ducted by Dr. Gregg Gausline on Tuesday, Mar. 1 at 7:30 p.m. in 
Neff Recital Hall. I he concert will feature Mike Roylance of the 
Boston Symphony On hestra pcrlnrmmg Ralph Vaughan Williams 
Concerto for Tuba and Band. 

The first half of the program will include KTRKPATRICK 
LAM .Mil- bv Andrew Boysen, li . AV1-: MARIA by Franz Schubert; 
BRITISH I -IGHTH MARCH by A, I Hint and conducted by Vince 
Polce; CELTIC HYMNS AND DANt.LShv I richwa/eu; and STO- 
RYVULE by James Syler. 

The concert will conclude with Mike W. Roylance perform- 
ing Ralph Vaughan Williams t( )\'( I RIO 1UH IUBAANDBAND. 
Roylance became tubist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra at 
the start of the 2(103 langlewnod season Horn in Washington, 
DC. Mike attended the University of Miami, and received a Bach- 
elor of Arts degree from Rollins College in Winter Park. Florida. 
At Rollins College, he served on the faculty conducting the brass 
ensemble and directing the Pep Hand Mike was also the profes- 
sor of tuba and euphonium at the University of Central Florida. 
He then did graduate studies m the Masters of Music program at 
DePaul University in Chicago. Illinois. 

The concert begins at 7:31) p.m. on Tuesday. Mar. 1 in Neff 
Recital Hall. Admission for Hi W students with ID is free. $4.00 
adults, $3.00 seniors and SI. nil for all other students. For more 
information call the Department of Music, at 260-481-6714. 






we'v 


i got it. @ club inc. 








sm JBOO 






og 


Eg 


thursdays 




* * * M * i * M * jb * 1 


■ J « J « Jk 


feb. 24 //march 10 





