THE 



VOLUME 34 

ISSUE 34 

SINCE 

1969 



COMMUNICA'nyR 



Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne 



OFHCE LINE; 

481-6584 

ADVERTISING: 

481-6583 



Bi 



Hope Alive board rejects application of homosexual volunteer 



By Hoidl Saliba 

Chief Reponer 



Ib'a posl May IPFW AuIsIbdi 
Profeuot of Accouniing, Kalhy 
I^UoCk wai denied aMuidoaDOD 
Sac a scat on the Hope AJive board 
o( diieoot! aJIa il bccime known 
ihai she is bomouiiul. Hope Alive 
is i Fori Wayne-based private 
organaaiion and ii not subject lo 
AiTumaiive Action bivs. 

Tbe decision was based 00 U&gt;e 
tccood or iwo voui by ibe board, in 
wbicti Prcsideni of ibc Board Roger 
Werling abiiaioed boib times. Tbe 
ritsi vote rctuJlcd in a 4-4 tie witb 
Wcrling's absiesiion In ittc second 
vot£ one of Lbc boaid membcis 
cbaoged tbeu mind Pollock did doi 
have any dutci coduici wiib board 
tncn)bc[3 regarding tbu decisJDn. 
Sbe Wis being considcicd for a posi- 
tion in wtiich sbe would have been 
involved wlib accounting and finan- 
cially related responsibiLtics. 

Foe Ibis anicle. Pollock and 
Hope Aliwe Foundei. Director 
Eoierilus and current Board 
Member Mdli Bisbion wen botb 
intervientil for ihcit respective 
sides of tbe story. Bistaton was one 
of (be persons who vowd in favw of 
dismissing Pollock's nomination, 
Aldioagb Pollock and Bisbton wen 
interviewed separately, some of 
Ibeir xcwcri ^tpcar logetbcr. 

IMs is because {wben ^pro- 
priaie) ibey were asked some of tbe 
lame qucsiioas. Not all qiiesDoas 



you are a IcsUao? 

KP Shcfi [Dunlaveyl just hap- 
pened 10 mention iL Tbey bad inter- 
viewed another persoo lo be oo tbe 
board. Sbcri mentioned il. it musb- 
n»med from there. My appointment 
was cancelled because il was going 
10 be an iuue. She origin^y did not 
thiak ii would be an issue. Whai I 
doo'i understand is. what decision 
do tbey think I ever would have 
made against ll&gt;eir guidelines? 



loss, grief, anxiety and panic 
alUck.s. We also offer low-cost 
counseling, we provide low&lt;ost 
housing for women in transiuon 
wbo arc starting ara after hitting 
some kind of crisis m tbdr life, and 
we oDcr classes oa VMious subjecis 
related to depression and 
rclatioiuhips. 

Q: You've spoken briedy about 
your faith. Do you consider yourself 
a Christian? 

KP: Yes. I consider myscll a 
Chnstian. Tbal'i actually a much 
bigger piece of me than being a 
lesbian. 



MB: Through the person wbo ncmi- 
naied bei. Il was as a maaci' of Infor- 
mation; sbe did not think il would be 
a problem, tl wasn't something we 
researched lo try to figurt out. 1 
woulll like to clarify that 1 see a big 
difference between seiual orienla- 
ticn and seiual behavior. Tlial is a 
key issue here. I know of people 



T of MB: Yes, I do. 

Q: There arc some Qirislians wbo 
believe ihal bomoseiualily and 
Christianity are muwaJly cxclasive. 
Have you been coabnnted witb thai, 
and if so, bow have you responded? 



therefore some of ti&gt;e questioiu have 
icspooaes (mm just one of ibe par- 
tics mvolved Pollock was inter- 
viewed bctDTc Biihion, Pollock's 
answea precede Bishion's to ledta 
tbe cbnnology of tbe mlervlcws. 
The follow log questions and 
answcn arc fiom interviews con- 
ducted witb both pervHU, 

Q: In ligbi of the leccol SufRmc 
Coun ruling that Boy Scouis of 
Ameika can choose not lo allow 
bcmoKxual men to be leaders in tbe 
otganiialion, what implication does 
that hold for Olber private groups, 
such as Hope Alive? 

KP; The Boy Scouts rubng has the 
same impUcatiDns for Hope AUve. 
From my vieu.'pOiDi ii shows some 
bigotry. Hope Ahve has labeled me 
as imiBoral — Ihai's just ridiculous. 



MB: 1 believe ibai it docs amim 
what most people on non-profil 
boards assunie, tbat tbey are Cite in 

people, with like interests and then 
should be no pressure... Pm talking 
alNMit the world of ideas more than 
anyUUDg. 1 bavt always believed in 
diveniiy...l think ideas are very 
imponm when you're talking about 
aboard. 



might be termed homoseiual. If 
ihey are cclibalc, thai would not 
cause them to be lumed dowri by us, 

Q What decisioa do you think 
Kathy Pollock might have made that 
would have been against Hope 
Alive' s guidelines? 

MB: Since moral behavior is a key 
thing,.. and since bomoseiual 
behavior is forbidden under Biblical 
guidelines. Ibeo having a sexual 
partner — nol a partner — would 
qualify as icomoral behavior. 
Incidentally, there have been bomo- 
icuai women who've bad sexual 
relationships that came to the deci- 
sioa that homosexual behavior is 
bnmoral, and they have developed 



relatiooships. 






xuall 



KP; I've never bee . 

by ibaL except in college and then . 
did not have a good answer for that. 
I always try lo take Ihe higher toad. 
1 want UD respect wbai ihey believe, 
but I see God m anoiher way. I thuik 
people are apprrached both nsys. 1 
see It as a blessing thai God chose 
Die to be pan of a srnaii, unique 
group. I've bad the advantage of 
havmg lo resolve Ibis issue careful- 
ly— il look me a number of years to 
be comfortable saying I'm a 
Christian who's py. 
'"Pollock mentioDed at Ibis point 
that sbe has carefully researched and 
studied the Bible itgarding ihe issue 
of bomosexuabty and homosexual 
practices. 

MB: Homosexuality in itself, as I 
merooned before, wben thinking 
about otienlation. cannot be muhial' 
ly exclusive wilh Christianiiy. 
Christians do DM 



there's m awfld lot of verses Ibey'i 
cboosisg not to read, such as m 
Leviticus wben it talks about ibings 
a woDian should do when she's on 
her period, and sacrifices for sins. 
Jesus called people to be his disci- 
ples who were open-minded. 
People be didn'i wani wen tbe high 
priests, Bible- tiuimpcrs, wbo said 
you must obey tlie letter of the law. 
TTiey were not open to what he had 
to say. Being a lesbian was pan of 
the wholeness thai God wanted mc 



MB: I have sludied these and have 
always known ibem. In nxcni times 
I've lead what different people have 
said about them. I believe it is okay 
10 question, did the Bible really say 
IbaL and 1 honor thai. It hasn't 
changed my understanding of wbai 
the Bible says, Thai's my conclu- 
sion, and I'm only one peisoa I'm 
Dol a tiieologian. 

Q: You were quoied in die News- 
Sentinel as saying. "We accept peo- 
ple for what tliey are," and "Our rep- 
utation is as a Qiristian organiza- 
tion. Christ did not turn bis hack on 
Ihe adulteress. We don't impose our 
beliefs, yet we practice tbe Chrisuan 
faith." Could you elaborate oo ibai 
comment and explain about practic- 
ing your faith without imposing 
your beliefs? 

■••Kalhy Pollock was not directly 
asked to respond to this quote bul 
staled m a June 21, 2000 letter to tbe 
Hope Alive board of directors thai 
"...IbeUere Ihal truly loving people 
must carefully examine how they 
impose their beliefs oo others." 

MB: Tben are two ways to com- 
munlcaic your faitb. One way is to 
say this is how it Li, you have to 
believe this. Iliat's imposing your 
faitb on other people. Basically 
when we make'" ' 



honest siatement of wbo we are and 
we express our experience and tbe 
faitb ihai is ourv and we do il appto- 
pnalely then il's not imposing, 
'Appropriately' has lo do wilh tim- 
ing. If a person comes U} me wbo is 
bacnoscxual and Ibey have jus! lost 
their paimei lo AIDS, thai is not tiic 
time to tell Ibera about my beliefs. 
Thai would be wrong. ,.1 want lo 
treai thai person as Chnsi would and 
come to tbem where they need help. 

Q: Also in tbe News-Senlinel anicle 
you were quoud as saying that 
Rillock was eliminated as a candi- 
date because of ber "penpective of 
bcmosexuality dial II is normal and 
acceptable behavior." Were there 
any other factors or special consid- 
erations that (did) or would have 
elimmaied her as a caikdidaie? 

MB: Not that [ know of . I was not 
aware of any other Lssites. Thai's 
what made ii so difficult I think. 



I do respect Kalhy Pollodc. What 
does 'respect' mean? Thai would be 
my question back to ber. 1 can 
respect somebody wiibiHii wanting 
Ibem on my board of directors. 

Q; Also included in the letter is tbe 
comment that Pollock '...could 
have discussed tbe terrible cost Ihal 
conservative Qiristianlty has on the 
menial health and self^estcetn of 
homosexual people..." What is your 
response to tiial comment? 

MB: Idonoiwanttoiakeresponsl' 
biliiy tor what e(fect[s] conservative 
Qiristianity has on olbet people,.,! 
think that's such a generalizatian 
Ibal il's unanswerable except 10 say 
that Christianity is taking a lum for 
concern for | homosexuals) without 
assuming or afTinning Ibal their 
behavior is okay, and I tiunk ibal is 
llie cofiici position. 



MB: Forone ii:ason: ive really did- 
n't want to give her Ihe message thai 
she was being singled out and 
rejected personally, bul maybe sbe 
felt tiiat way anyway. To bave inur- 
viewedheTwhenweksew tiiere was 
somcUung dial would bar ber. in our 
view. I think would bave been 



Q: In a letter to you from KP, sbe 
stated tbal "despite what you may 
want to believe, your current alti- 
tude is decrimcnial lo lesbian clients, 
who will know that ihcy are not 
respected." What is your response lo 
tbat comment? 



MB: Yes. I definitely intend la. 

[n fairness lo Pollock. Il must 
be Slated dial she was not given Ibc 
opportunity lo respond lo Bishion's 



Bisbion was nol reached for an 
interview until jusi hours before Ibis 
story went to press. 

An additional interview was 
conducted with one of FHDilodt's 
supponers bul not used for this arti- 
cle, in order lo focus oo die key per- 
sons involved m diis siory- '&lt; u pos- 
sible that follow-up inlervicws will 
he conducted to allow for further 
response from E&gt;ollock. Bisbion, and 
various other parties inralved wiib 
Hope Alive and its dccisioD. 



tbey do sin. 



KP; As far as responses from 
everyone in tbe feminisl community 
and social services commimily, 
they're appalled because [die deci- 
sion] doesn't fit their missioo of 
diversity over tbe years, Hope Alive 
will not be getting Tinancial suppon 
from feminisls in Ihe community 
wbo dwught they had a good mis- 



MB: I would say tiiai pndiciably 
Uiere bave been reactions both 
extremely positive and extremely 
negative. From our constiiucncy and 
members and supporters of Hope 
Alive we have recavod no negative 
pbone calls or lencrs, 

Q; What exactly does Hope Alive 



KP: Tliete are Iwo things. Fust, 
Sboi Dunlaiey w^ a very good 
friend of mine, and sbe asked me to 
do it. Second, because the School of 
Business has made an effort lo 

Q; Was ibis to be a volunteer or 



do? 

KR For the most put. it helps 
women widi mental health prob- 
lems. They have tootsa upstairs for 
women to suy. [which arc] live-In 
facilities. They cover the gamut for 
women who riccd bcalmg. 

MB: We offer cmoliotial suppon 
groups fcx wooien wbo are going 
Ihrougb (Ihiags like) depression. 



sexual practices. 
What is your 
response to that? 



Community view^s logo at parade 




College fair focuses on opportunities for African-Americans 




iPFW and Tl)e Fort Wayne 
Ministerial Alliance are sponsoring 
a college fair oi Mt, Calvary 
Missionary Bapiisi Oiurch. 3506 
Warsaw Streei.on luly IS, Tie 
event is scheduled 10 nin from II 
a.m. to 3 pjn. and will have nipre- 
senlativcs from all of IPFW's 
schools, divisions and deparlmciits. 
Addiliooally, die Fort Wayne Urban 
Leagoe's Afrlean- 

Amerlcta Achievement Prognm. 
will be 00 hand lo provide informa- 
tioo and answer questions. 
: trying to do Is grow a univenity 



tiiai'i as diverse as our community." said Chancellor 
Micbael WaruU. " One of our goals is to increase Kcesj 
to soidcnts. and Ibis is an imponani part in search of that 
goal" 

Cbrisiine Patterson, director of IPFW's 
Multicultural Services, said the college fair "primarily 
focuses 00 African -Americans, widi the view diat. In 
order to be successful, you need to have more than a 
high school diploma." 

She also said dial Ibe purpose of Samrday's event 
is "to Dy and increase tbe number of Afiican-Ajoericans 
in die inner cities going U3 college. If you do or do not 
have a high school diploma or a GED, here's Infonna* 
tion oa bow you can go to college. It does nol matici 
whal your age is, or wbelber you're single or have kids. 
We ire oOcring m cfipanunity to Ibose who may not 
know they can go to college." 

Patterson said Uie piofecl origmaied from actions 
of the chancellor, who hosted a luocbeoa witb tbe 
Divnslty Coimcil and invited key Icxlcn in "the cnn- 



lalk about wbai we can do beacr,...We want 

m die conmunity lo come here," explained 

(^ttetsai. So Uk chancellor wait out lo a cbuich and 



'^e had a meeting and inviicd [community] lead- 
ers to a luncheon on campus." said Waned. The African- 
Amciicaa leaders especially said, 'ywi need to gel inio 
our churches; Uic churches arc lite focus of whal hap- 
pens in [die African -American) commuiuty.'" 

Patterson said tbal 13 percent of African- 
Amcricaiu in Atkn County arc unemployed, accortling 
10 census informatioa. Aside from the issues of educa- 
tion and job uaining. there is Ibe challenge of finding 
and mainlaining reliable transportalioo to get to higba- 
paying jobs in the area. 

'Yfu can cboose to go on welfare, take a low-pay- 
ing )ob or choose lo go to school and get die skills to 
provkle for a family Bul often we doo't know we have 
tiiose tbaoa," uld E^uenoo. 



Paltcrson and Wanell boUi cited the involvement 
and efforts of Icaneiie Clausen, interim vice chancellor 
of AcaJemic Affairs; Frank Botelli. vice chancellor of 
Academic Affairs and Carol Isaacs, director of 
Admissions in work along die way, includuig a meeting 
with the Ministerial Alliance. Wanell said dicic are 
many efforts lo leauil minorities which are ongoing, bul 
"this is 1 special elfon— if il secmi to work we'll uy 
more of it and if not we'll try something different." 

Tills is die firsi year for die college fair, and organ- 
izers bope u) have about two hundred people attend. 
There will be woiksbops running concurrently Uuougb- 
out tbe event so that aoendcei may come and go at ibeir 
convenience.'We'rc so exciteil about die fair," said 
Paltcrsoa " 

Tbe conmunity has said ihey only want to work 
widi us on this. Tile high school gradiiaiion rate in die 
community has increased, but die college-going rate has 




Opinions 



Features 



Sports 



Purchasing books can be a burden, page 2. Skateboarding history in Fon Wayne, page 4. VoUeyball camps for kids, page 6. 



Opinions 



Page 2 The Comrn 



The non-joys of book buying 



Well wjib ibe icboot ytat fast 
approachlDg. evetyone occds Id 
ion uviDg ibat mooey rcr the 
ever rim trip u FoUcti'i Boobiore. 
Yoai scmesier is atx compleu 
onku you bave speni ai kau SSO 
oo book! for daues. U yon an able 
lo gel oB only ^mdin; S50 for 



staff ■ "■'••'}• 

• vay luczy 

I Editorial \b. 



ly ipoid up ED SlOO 00 boob a 
usatsia. Ttai it a SlOO oui ibe 
door. coaiUimiig we do not cvta 
gel balT o( ibal back when wc sell 
ibcm bade at tbe cad of eacb 
temestcr. U you think paying lor 
luiiloD i&gt; bod, buying (exibooks is 
Do( mucb bctiis. 

One tbing Ibal cvoyonc bas 



an all college iludcols. Tills 
Ibal-foralotof to, we do tiol eiacl- 
ly bavc a Id( ot money to our 
names. Well al leaii mosi of ui 
beic do DOL Eacb lemeneT we 
make our always dreaded trip to tbe 
booksuxe to see wbai kind ol dam- 
age will be done Id our cbccking 
aad our credit card accounU. Ii b 
not always a pteity sigbi lo sec. 
eiibei. It is not hard lo Tigmc out 
after your fint MDp thai you bavc lo 
buy six books for ooe class. There 
could easily be a S100 spent rigbi 
ibeic and Iboe are still more books 
ID buy for tbe msl of ibc classes. By 
tbe way, who has time to read all the 
books on UDp of oUw dasswork 

Each semester It seems that 
professors and uacbert like U) have 




than one teitbpok for ibeir 
daues. It probably would not be so 
bad if the icilbooks were not brand 
■Kw and baidcovcr. Tliat seems to 
be ubeo tbe books uc tbe most 
eipoisjve, especially when tbey are 
bardcovei leitbooks. RecenJy, it 
secmj that iheie are hardly any used 
books to buy and thai everyone is 
cuming out with new editions for 
Ibe leitbooks. It is hard to avoid 
ibougb. because we need lo leam 
from bocks thai have Ok nosi up- 
lo-daien &lt;:i"al. 

What makes you feel even bel- 
ler Is wbcn you gel to class, after 
spending a nice amouol on Ibe 
book, you only 



old chapter ibc wbolc 
bave all bad it happen to us at least 
ooce. It makes you wander why you 
even bothered wasting Ibc lime lo 
buy tbe book al all espedally when 
you only are able to sell it bad for 
a couple of dollars (if you are lucky 
enough to be able lo do thai). 

Sdling back your lenlbooks at 
tbe end of tbe semester is not much 
fun either, as everyone pfDtably 









What does the Fourth of July mean to the Indian? 



thai we are lucky lo get back half 
what we paid for tbe books. For 
eiamplc. a staff member from Tbe 
Communtcalor once lelumol die 
bocks tbey paid S121.3i foe and 
only received SI5.75 back. C*ay. 



thai is Ibc biggest problem of alL 
Paying SlOO or inore for textbooks 
cadi semester would not seem so 
bod if you knew that you would gel 
at least half of It back when you sold 
ibcm back lo Ibe bookstore. If you 
do get half back, you are dcfmitely 
the lucky winner, because most of 

Ob, let us not forget tbe ones 
thai tbey will not eveo lake back. 
This happens even with new le*!- 
books. It would not be so bad if we 
coukd use Ibese tintbocda for other 
coursex. but wben you cannot, ihcy 
just lay around Ibe bovce and collect 
dust. Jusi what we need is more dust 



So. who is to blame for thit 
semester event thai lakes all of our 
mODcy on a regular basis? It would 
be easy to blame those in charge of 
ihe booksuve, bul you cannot really 
blame them. Tbey are just charging 
the prices thai tbey ate lold to 
charge. The bootiiore must do whal 
ibcy have lo do lo keep in business, 
plus tbey have to keep the book sup- 
pliers happy. Next in line iben 
would be tbe profcsson and leacb- 
eri that give the book lists to tbe 
boc^loie. We blame professors for 
everything. Ihougb. Keep in mind 
thai they are just giving us Ibe cdu- 
caHooal inforoiatioa thai wc need to 
help us io our inaior. We oocd these 



books for ciamples a&gt;d uperi- 
■" ■ books are a lot of 
books to have lo read for ooe class 
and evoyooc tsks diemselves at 
least once, "Do 1 leally need all 
these books? "So. tba leatlx us to 
the book publishers Ibanselvcs. 

Not all of us are loade of 
money and has some of us were 
told while growing up Ibal mooey 
does not grow on irecs. So whoe 
do these book publishers ihink we 
can gel all of Ibis money? 
Obviously tbey do not know and 
probably do not can. All tbey 
know and caic about Is the nloe 
of money tbey are makiDg 
off of eacb and evoy student here 
aitd al odier campuses. When you 
' "it. ihey know thai stu- 
dents need the books tot class and 
: lime, we do not have 
cboice bul to pay Ihe 
price thai is placed 00 Ibe books. 
Tliey provide tbe books we need, 
knowing that ue have io buy them. 

■ busmess. Ihey 

'hal Ihcy need 



Buying books ij not some- 
tbing tluu most of us k»k forward 
to, especially since wc have to 
spendmoney We doit 10 further our 
education. It would be nice once In 
awhile if the book publishers and 
companies would lake thai into con- 
side nuion and lealiie thai not all of 
us ore made of money. It gets quite 
eipcnsive after awhile, hut their is 
not loo much we can do bul be pro- 
pared lo spend a Hole Int of dough 
die neii time we enter die booksuwe 
and try lo i^member lliai It is for a 
worihwhile cs 



Last week, as I sal it 
icspeoed academician bete at IPFW, ooe of 
her coUeagucs kmcked on ibe door and 
asked a questJoa about a studeoL 
Af^iarenlly. ibe sludeni warned a resile on 
some of the obllgadoos id which she'd 
commiticd just a few weeks ago. Il WBS the 
Fourth of July and she wanted U) spend 11 
mih friends. 

T already _q)okc to her about ii aod 
laid thai wc would be pnxeeduig as origi- 
nally planoetl And what docs ibe Fourth of 
July really mean to die AMcan-Americaa. 
anyway?!" 

I iLskcd il this was a point al whlcb 1 
should leave for a few mimiics and the pro- 
fessor iDld me no. It was noi necessary. She 
and bet colleague HnislKd Ibeir coovcisa- 
iloo. and wc conliiiucd our earlier dlscus- 



Afta leaving, I began to think about 
what sbc bad said. What DOES ibe Fonnh 
of July mean to Aftlcao- 
Atneilcans? Funhetmore. what does it 
mean to die Native Amoican? 

As II uniis out, Ibc professor was 
referring to a famous spMch ntade by 
Frederick Douglass on July 5. 18S2. In bis 
address lo Ibe Rocbester Anil-Slavery 
Sewing Society, be spoke lo Ihose types of 
queslioos. "What, to the American slave. Is 
your Fourtb of July? I answer a day thai 
reveals id bim. more than all other days in 
the year, die gross injustice and crudiy lo 
which be is the consianl victim. To him. 
your celebration is a sham... a ihin veil to 
cover up crimes wbiiii would disgmce a 
nalimi of savages " 

He meaUoocd in dial same speech Ibal 
"Al a lime like this, scotcbing irony not 
ronviiKing argumeni. is needed." It is iron- 
ic in and of iuclf dial Douglass chose to use 
die phrase, '^don of savages." 

Every year at diis lime 1 am simulta- 
neously bouDded by feelings o( graiiuide 
and an overwbchning guilt for fceUng Ihal 
gradnide. To explain. I musi say dial mv 
biographical profile is somewhat 



we are free; fruedocD from having lo quaner 
.widie: frtiiii having w inoiminaie our- 
selves ur our spouses dunng interrogaiion 
and dK assurance dial wc cannot be jaded 
for maierijtl debts. 1 cbciisb all of these and 
a(fireciaie the sacrinces that have been 
tnade by unki&gt;own iboosand* of soldiers 
and dieir f°niiii&gt;T fur buying and securing 
tbese rights. 

However. America was not dipkmati- 
cally founded and most Euii:^icaiis did not 
consider die "fteedoms of and "frecdooas 
bom" of tbe people who already lived hoe . 
lo bo. die Indians woe Dtlca robbed. 
raped, betrayed and slaugbteitd because of 
their incoDvoiieDt presence in the "land of 
the Etee.~ Io Douglass' wools. "Tbe sunlight 
Ibal brought light aod healing \d you. has 
brought siripci and ileaib to me. Titii Fourth 
of July is yours, not mine. You mayiejoice, 

Entrenched widiin Ibe griefs of diis 
country arc otr shameful Icgadcs of pro- 
modem slavery and posODOdcm i^ism. 
Most Africans who came to this couoDy did 
so against dieir own will and in fear for 
Ibeit lives, li should be no surprise that after 
gcncratkms of enslavement, haired, segre- 
gation aod bigotry, we still are dealing widi 
skin color poliiiC3 and cross-culniral leu- 
siotQ. I suppose it Is best to move oo and get 
over it After all. we can't go back in time 
and do things Ihe way thai we wish diey'd 
been dooe. No amount of lamesLdig will 
ever change what happened to my ancestors 
or diose of black dozens. You can't take 
back the Lves dial wero lost in unnecessary 
battles or for material reasoos. Words can't 
be changed mce Uiey are spoken... can trust 
be renewed once it is broken? (Hey, I'm a 
poet and didn't know it... maybe us 
"Injuns" aren'l JO savage after all.,.) 

I guess what is left in regard lo the 
pasi b a "balance due" notice for futuic 
relations. Il can't be helped dial our grand- 
parents' giandparenis' grandparents did tbe 
things that tbey did. Houei 



I liiUc 






I a 



Ibe d 



a Native 






European while persoi. a metiing-poi i 
of die ok) world and new. 1 am fair skitmcd 
and appear lo be white, but have iDorc 
Indian blmd than mything else. My grand' 
mother was born r^ar F^ru. Indiana, on ou 
of the last Indian reservaUoos in this part of 
die country. Cekbraiung die independeiKX 
of ■ nation I injly kive and resfca for its 
CoiUtiludODal Ideals collides with an anger 
that's bard lo eiplain. I have a tremendous 
mjcncy lo pray every day. oot just on 
lodependcoce Oay, lo diank God for allow- 
ihg mc 10 be boro in ihti country. America 
Is the freest pl^e dull know ctf... we have 
fnedom of speedi. trecdom of ibc prou, 
(recdom of rdigioo. die right to beat arms. 
Just at impotiani are the things from which 



Editorial Board 



influence our own children aod grandchil- 
dren. Nothing IS so powerful as one person 
who stands up and says m tbe world, 
"Enough widi the bale " Tbe greai Burmese 
leader, Aung San Suu Kyt said you cannot 
separate tbe political system ot a country 
from die way in which you conduct your 
daily life. 

This year, wben pledging allegiance to 
die flag, poy special BOentlon lo lu nnal 
phrase, "...widi libcny aid justice for all." 
Whoever you go, and whatever dme of 
year It migbt happen lo be. plant joeds of 
peace ami lei kivc kad uj justice. In die 
words of Cblcf Seatde, just three years after 
Douglass' dedaradOQ. Tribe follows tnbe. 
and naiioD follows nation. Uke die waves of 
the sea. Ii U tbe onlet of nature, and regret 
is useless. You lime of decay may be dis- 
tani, but It will surdy come, for cvea the 
while man. ..cannot be exempt from die 
coounoo destiny. We may be brodiers after 
ill We will see." 



In flight peanuts are a tasty treat 



1 was watching TV die other day.. .a mrc 

~ nrence In my life. ..and on ibe news 

i was a repon about bow airline ofTiciats 

: striking and passing oul nyeis because 



myself. "How weird?!" Then yeslcrtlay 1 
was readmg an article in the July 10 issue of 
Newsweek eniided "Why Flying is so 
Awful," Iiwasqiute inDiguing iiself, and it 
added ID niisundeistanding of why people 
are so upset widi flying. 

There are three major complaints I guess. 
I say 1 guess because I see no validity to any 
of these three bul ooe. Adam Bryml slalci 
that bad weather, bad service, and ctowded 
flights are making this a grim season for die 
airlines. Let's lake a kiok ai each one of 



1} Bad Weathcr-This is impossible to con- 
trol, so why do« ii make flying awful? 

2) Bad StTvice-We can all get a little 
cranky, and wben you bave a termioal full of 
quite unruly people, it's very hard lo main- 
tain composure. Tliis can be worited on. ..it 
is a valid cooiptainL 

3) Crowded Highis-ls this not what die air- 
tines want? People coiqilaln because they 
want a seat cpen new lo diem. Well buy an 
extra one. Business is good for die airlines. 
ftople want to get somewhete CasL and they 
can do this in an airplanc. 

Lei's make a comparisoo to the days 
of tbe Fiooder when it would take four 
nuodis ID atns tbe country, and that's if you 
survived lodiao attacks, severe dehydration. 
tkiaeai, and on and on. Now, you may face 
an bout or two delay because of weather pat- 
lerns that nobody can conbol, sit by some- 
one dial may like to talk your bead off, or 



you may not gel your in flight peanuU. I say 

It's aU about patience. Wby can't every- 
one be mote poiieni? Ijustdon't undersund 
wby we as a society bave lo speed lo be Tirst 
UD a red UghL We have u&gt; have everylbing 
faster and fasiet and faster. This can be a 
good thing, but whatever happened lo silting 
on die porcb and watditiig tbe sunset, or 
heading oul lo die woods for a nice day bdte. 

Wc bve in a world of high tech and high 
speed. We live in a world of needing some- 
thing yesterday 1 propose lhis,..roi tbe 
whole mondi of August we slow everything 
down. Wc all take off for die month and go 
to Jamaica (Or some olher place of your 
choice), and wejust relax and wait oo life. 

To get to Jamaica we would deTinitdy 
ry..,and we would diank out stewardess 
widi a smile when she givea us our wonder- 
ful honey-roasted peanuts. 



Confusing time in life 



By Mallssa FA 



mm 



The biggesi questicn that I 
bave been asked recentiy is, 
■T-falissa, when do you gradu- 
alc?- Well, rm proud lo say that 
diis December I will graduate 
from IPfW, I ibought that would 
satisfy the ever curious minds of 
^toily and friends dial ti until 
die ncKi question comes up 
'Wbai do you plan to do after 
you graduate?' That is a good 
question. It seems like every 



■ If s 

asked me dial a few years ago. I 
would have oo problem onswia'- 
ing dicm. Now, though. 1 1 Is not 
such an easy quesUoa lo answer. 
Ijustdoo'iknow what I'm going 
to do. 

I fed al times dial I'm even 



have been able to lake so many 
ditfacni courses dial deal wiUi 
ifferent aieas dial my major 
oukl allow me to do. Also, I 
have been involved io difTereni 
opportunities here oo campus 
dial have aUowcd mc lo explore 
more of my major. I'm diankful 
for tbe opponunides and classes 
that I bave lakea but diey bave 
gonen me lo Uke so many differ- 
ent iblngs d&gt;al I don't know what 
area of work I want to go in 
wben I graduate. 

CoDskJering I gradiaie In 
about five mondis, that is proba- 
bly not die best dung I should be 
hearing from myself right now. I 
should have figured out by now 
what I waiu lo do, bul unfortu- 
nately I bave noL I fed at times 
even more confused now then 
wben I first started bere. 
Shouldn't il be die otbo way 
around diougb? A friend lold me 
die other day dial I had a con- 
fused look on my face and I told 
him thai tills has been a normal 
look for me laidy Sook people 



led mc that dtis feeling is nor- 
mal, dial rm feeling ibe aouciy 
of ^aduaiing and having lo TuhI 
aJobintiKncw&gt;'ear.Thendiere 
are Uiose dial say dm you bave 
goDc m school for almost five 
yean and you do not know what 






to do. 



Will to survive 



will 10 keep pursuing bet goal. 
In my opinion, ber glass is 
always half fulL Her attitude, as 
welt as hs supporters, make a 
world of difference. 

Wben it comes right down 
ID It, pure will is die force that 



ifiB 

Most of the 

™ii_.?^._Z; I, t^" ■ , 1" ". [«ic wui a me lorec tnai 



This week. 

is rc-nanini, 

pie inslmialcd she would 

do so again. I 

20 yean, yet 



iprei^ve. ijtoids' mike"it strcngei'™* 

otmyrelatim newrt of people is die 



isre-nmngacarTersOTepco- ian„^^ r^ ,„ ,j.. 

Die Insmiiaied ilw wnild rKva j b^-™*- ■" j^vuvrm. * 

i.^ uuuuMieu loe wDuio iKvn [,^^ depending on bow jBoog 

• person is. Their words mean 



I have considered several 
options on what I want u&gt; do. I 
tiave even thought about going 
on to graduate scbool. For so 
many years I kept telling myself 
I can't wait until I'm done widi 
school and bere I am now diink- 
Ing about going on. Wben you 
think about it though, many of 
us have known all of our lives is 
school I'm inieroing ibis fall 
maybe diat will help m dear 
some diings up and lead mc in 
the right direction, wheiever 
dm may be. 

I guess I would feel betta 
aboul the whole situation if 1 
knew that I was oot tbe only one 
who bos ever felt tbis way. 
Maybe diere should be a support 
group out Uiere dial wc can go 



something and Uiey pul ideas in 
a person's bead. Unfortunately. 
this unit often forgets bow 
meaningful opinions can be. 

Imagine being surrounded 
by negativity inside aid outside 
die bome, everyday. You are 
lucky if you have created a sce- 
nario in your bead. Some people 
don't bave m bnaglne diis set- 
ling. They live in die setting. 
widKxit hope. Instead of being 
compUmcnted on coostrucdve 



extra dme to diink about il all, 
whether good ot bad. 1 1 has at 
least given me some time to 
dear dungs up and look at all 
my options. I know that I do not 
want 10 rush Into anything and 
regret it laiet down the road. I 
guess I alwaysjustauumed dial 
I wouU know what I warned lo 
do or at least Ibal somediing 
would pc^ up right io front of 
my face by Uie time that 1 grad- 
uated If only life were Uiai sim- 
ple and easy. 

For tiKMc of you who were 
never confused. I greatly envy 
you. As some people are telling 
me, I'm just growing up and 
rmally realizing iL Thai life 
doesn't get much easier from 
here on ouL Something lo look 
forward to. My goal is to have 
everything figured oul by die 
time scbool starts in the fall. 
Well, ai least half of everything. 
To all of you who are just as 



die best of luck. 






I hak'cn'i lived in such a 
negative almoqitiere, bul 1 have 
vislled one. We all get a littie 
down sometimes. Some were 
raised in a place where soine- 
dmes was all Ibe time. Even 
though Uie world doesn't seem 
ID be looking ia your direction, 
keeping iq&gt; tilc wUI to go forth is 
wonb it in the long run. 



Contact Us! 



Editorial Policy 



MiliMa Frilx, Managing Editor 
Lkida Lcdle, Sports Editor 
Todd Hamn. Fealurti Editor 
H&lt;UI SaHba, CXcf Reporter 
Eric 'nrr, Editorial Coitoonijf 
Kaifcjr Ddapsngt, Copy Editor 
Brian MIDct, ^idvtTtiling Manager 
Dotle BcyinUi, Publisher 



Wilb Snident Unkm. 2101 E. CoUseion 
Blvd.. Fon Wayne. IN 46803 



Publisher 4S1-6JS5 
Advertising: 481-6583 



Unsigned editorials &gt;e the oplidon* of TIk Gnimunica 
They do not neccuarily refled tbe views of OTW, its onpkiycc* 
or Its student body, A column is soldy die opinloo ofiti aulbor. 

The Communicaiot wdcomci responses from its readers, 
LeIKn to die Editor and guest columos must be signed, dated and 
accompaiied by a cunenl. valid address, 

AU submissions made via e-maU must be verified by pbone or 
in person. Submiulons via mail or e-maU widiout dul information 
will not be published, ocepi under eutaordinary droimslanccs. 
Clau ftvdiDg or tide HE also teqaefled. Adtkessei and phone 



Submission* must be typewritten, di 
dian 300 words. Submissions fot die next week's Isii 
received prior lo i pjn. on die Iiiday before tile isju 
timely cnosideiatian. 

The editorial board of The Ccmmunicaiorrcser 
edit all submissiom for length, grammar, style and d 
deemed libdous by Tlie Commuolcaior's editorial bt 
be published unde: 



July 13. 2000 



Mnuiw 



Three Rivers Festival on mrade 



The Commuolcalor Page 3 




ReprssenlBlrves ot the Fori Wayne Rrs Deparlmanl teka 
pamda rest b1 Bany and Harreion. 



Tlsllor says ths Allen County LitMary/QTE Bookwofm. 








'John DMn'klraiuformad into IPFWs Msstodon for Ihs 



fi?lfi 




Indiana University serenades parade-goers with Hi p^ organ. ■ ' n ' ' &lt; 

Traveling 'Threads of Unity' tell peaceful stories through textiles: 




VLUOD ai beiog r* tuviog the 
poww 10 triag aboui pcaa. We really 
e Cunily liviog oa itiis Eanh." 



ins The woman on the ted is pirt- 

P^J^;^ ling Ihe finishing touches on 1 

' ' '"" ;j copy mlnialurBquill Maggie 

Wayne lot a Jof^o^. a ^fwoJ teacher 

second lime designed for her daughter 

dioiag Lis on- before her daath. She is a 

rcoi appear- representation ol ell nxMhars 

ance 3\ ttte and grandmolhars who havB 

InierDaiLODal gone Iwfofe. "nva child play- 

Sciui.b Rf,e ^"^'°^'*'*»'=«t*^ ^Prtrto^ 

Vnleneia "«&gt;«• Q^xitauon. Tbis pi«e hai navtled ifl over Ihe 

Gardeiu, ai worldandiiwlllcmdiiueioiravclLiitll 

pan of the Three Riwri FesiivaL i' "«»» odI, Pourier said. Thicab of Unicy 

li will be duphyol until July 14. TIk i^ &gt; public nenvx (tiai caa be Kt iqi any- 
viewing [inie is frcot 11:30 ajn, n 7: ^ where. Iq addiiioD lo BppeariDB u (tK NGO . . . 

pjn- lis aeauv. Vkiie Hu ftrhicr of Laj Fonno. 11 hu also been uicd for qiecial 1""' Pl*" '" P"y&lt;=f ™^ mcditatii 

Ctuccs. New Mexico tIeiigDcd li wben It oceaikms-nd ia bouiea of wmblp. ^^^ seoioa of [be qulli hu iu own 

"Wtan Vickie aikcd «"y *'''=*' *''' ^ WU by people 

len orouod tte world lo working al ibe quih"j siie. One piece 

make a piece lo go Idid iIk BuUer dcsmhcd wu a yellow ribbon 

quill, she wmied ato relle« wiihanimeai il 
(lu ehlMr tbe culture they were ^^ '^""^ ^"^ that of the moth- 

living in a ihe nilnat ibcy "'• tnuntred son. The mother foc- 

weie (rcm." »aJd Carol Bulla, ga« ha soo'j killer through ber own 

public kifonnaiioD lefrttema- penonal itraigth. Tliu siory u well 

tive fa ihe Baha'li of Fan *&gt; '^ pictiircd stohei will be loU 

Wayu, ift^t (Ik quihed mural li on dispUy. 
The Baha'l Ikith it an "^ &gt;'"' '' "'■^ ■' ^"^ i^e^ (ai 

liilaiBiiaulJiidepaKleatwnId 11^^' '&lt; ^ awe inspirkag and phe' 



work-all the stories 

of the women. Seine 

came from remote The Threads of Unity" quiH look almoslfour months lobe corrpleled. This symbol of dbhcb and 

areas and Ibey all by 50 women from 21 countries. 

IhepcopteofFortWayueMany peopledkl- In addition ta the quill, some of 

n't get to &amp;CC it at IPFW for [be few boun it Porict's other works or mltueoccs will be on 
was displayed during Women's History, sak near the exhibit. She has itOKA ber 
Month." aniitic abiliiiei 

Aliliougb mosi displays aie from 

a single country, the Baba'is tbougbi 

it ujitable fcr Inicniatlonal Village 

because ii is a combinaiioD of dilTer- 

culDirti. It Is being displayed 





buiietniea and 
dragoDrilci. 
They also pat- 
IhehengMia J^^ "&gt;*' 
[\]thcT laid she 



u]KinanoDai,iDaepeDaeat world "•"!■ " « »" "-(".&gt;"» &lt;umj pw- «,„*„ hnr tv-kn inm rhj. nlr 

(tUgiDO- TliemSoneichiog is iwmaial piece. It is about iheequaUry r~^?V°^" '"T 

tl« uniiy of all "i"**"-* -Tot "^ o*" *"&gt;' ^oraai. Everyone has to Stowing uchs rito trie rwir 

pkcelslUzasloiysidaininaL etperiOKx it for ibanielvca. It is quite shows Ihal thoughta can involved wllb 

ItlibeaudfoLTUilioiirgiltto taeaihiaUng," lald Linda Fox. dinK- become reality. Hair is a port creating ibli 

tarofWamen'iStudles. of (emininilv organization for 



inity bears anialic materials donated 

the paM two or three yean. It a todal aod 
economic development foe womea- It 
enables tbe women at New Mexico (o wok 
hi thcs booica. bcaxnc sclf-sufQcien ad 
retain family values, lakl Poiiier. 

'How can we advance If our listen 
and bcocben can'l aJvaoce with bi7~ asked 
Poirier. Mariposas Dc New Mexico is plan- 
ning toacale garments iaihe fumrc. FOrdie 
past two or three yean tbc Mar^iout bai 
bceti HtuggUiig. It has loxnity received a 
couple ol gnna which equal SZ52,00D- 

ftalci has Kriously been working lo 
(he an btuiDeu for (be lasi IS yttn. Sbe 
takl thai ibe would not have been able (o do 
(his work wiihoui the auistance of her hus- 
band- He provUed aa atmospberc toA cli- 
mate for an to grow, ftxila added (bat 
(o&lt;by womoi'i work li ditcomied becaue 
1 1 doeant cam to many doUan. WooKti coo- 
tribuic an inoidible amount to the well- 
being of Mdcty, 

For more tofonnaiioo afcooi (be qoUi 
Will the Inienudonal ViUige thii week or 
check out (be Baba'lt website 
htip://l)ome(owiLaoLcoin/babalioaw- 



July 13, 2000 



nmunlcator 



An in-depth look at skateboarding in Fort Wayne 



On any givi 



r evcciDg thict 



ii aflmicco 
X of iiMnnxt nigbt 311 
3 glimpu o( ikaleboankx Braodoo Adanu pulling 

Imad" tn&lt;*s Mciewbcrt 

roads. oirtM and parlcing lou pcrmealiiig Fort Wiync 

Adam, wbo will be a setuoi al L^ High School 
diu fall, kivcs [0 skale. For him. ibe sport a not ooly ooc 
of hlx favoriie actlviiics. bui soncibiag be abo Ukn 
pride in. "It's jusi like aoy other activity. You itnvc lo 
■a nspxt amoDgu other peo- 



ottaer device or itrtictm wfalcb ii not imended Cor don't have a pbce for me lo go, we're going lo 

pcdctiriaD or vchictilai in&amp;k, jinnping or vcppiiit en •t'^tJ^ (be Coulboiae." 

or oil jucb devices or stiudum tmng vbeeling equip- In Fdxiary of Itaii year ttte city ViolHkKU Biseau 

meat or in a manner itiai is likely (o came dacoflge to Eodclcrk DtitttJ tbu only three cilMsotisbavc bcaihaixl- 

priificny....'' The ordinance specifies thai these betuv- ed down by dty pctke. Ailditionally, 

'^'^ ion an prabibiled in. amaog other seas, the 'down- PqUIc lorcmuDOO OtTicer Tom 



on. this midal "binr of luiacst started to fvle. ByansU 
said. He explained ihM ~we required the psticiponts 
wea tafcty gear becxise ve wcie subject lo being 
sued ~ Tbit. be said, "wasn't really well-recdvcd by ibc 



/loami luuE '°*° ccniraJ bullJias district... the area bortleied by Rhoada 

nu'jcs' oT'sldCTvSiZ ^^^ Street oo (he east to Sl May's f*"*^ &lt;* *« oorih. itee have been )ca ow^laints and 

10 Spy Run oeck nonh lo Elizabelta Street, west lo less damage since iLe ordinance 

ClinioD Streei. dien south lo Ibe Sl Mary's Rlvti. U«i carK lorn cffecL" 
wett 10 VaoBisea Slreel and souih lo Ibe railroBdcleva- 
ihe 1S00- 



1600 blodc t 



l!f"^°;ii^""^'"^"^."*^,^*";!°^'* Ldi'tioLlly' 
the confidence m yoiffself lo My yeah, 1 Jioi busied a 2_r:i,;., . 
mad Dick. ' but other people will see that and say 'you're 
afieoy good staler.'" 

He adds thai skauboaiding keeps him in shape and 
gives him soioelhing in do. ArK&gt;lber facet thai be com- 
meodj i) the comnnjo inicit^i itiai otien brings sk^iers 
iDgctber. "We all kinda Imow each other. Evco if you 
don't knotv someone perscnally, if you're skating some- 
wbae imd someone rolls up on a skaicboon]. thai iosiani 
youjiutkiodofdickwiihLtiem Then you skaii logelh- 
er aod have a lot of fun." 

Downlown Fort Wayne-despile a year-and-a-balf- 
old diy ordinance banning ccnain reckless behaviors 
associated with skateboaiding-is his favorite skalrng 
locale. The liarain downlovm IS prclly much set up ide- 
alisdcally for skate boanlmg." Atlara^ a llirec )ear vet- 
eran of [be spon. iays. Tbey say we ruio stuff, like do 
damage to landmarks, but I don'l know. We skate llieie 
anyway." 

TXvo years ago, a grojp of coimly coDunlssiowrv 
dowBlown merebants. propeiry ownen and representa- 
tives bom Headwaters Parii ao) ibc Federal Buildiog-ai 
the persuasive sting of ilmosands of dollars of property 
datriage annbulcd to skalcboanlert-uiged City Council 
(0 cocoplctdy ban ibe sport in Ibe downlown area. Greg 
PuralL director of Fbn Wayne PaAi and Reoeatton. 
sakl The skaters, be said, 'Veie basitally improperly 
--'ng their skaieboanis to deface property." 



Clay 



these 



prohibits 
bebavlon 
lain commercial 
corridors," The 

kng sireicbet on 

Calhoun and 
Welts Streets 
where reckless 
behavior on skaie- 
boanls and wheel- 
ing devices is pro- 
hibiied li does 
□01, however, 
"ban" responsible 

skaieboarding or 



dowalowo." says 



at Ibcyjosic 

ave Ibe gn 
wbcu they sl 



'Purcell said Ibe group accused stolen of bouncing "^"^ "^ B™™" 
u,^u btards off of siooe worit along the county court- "*=" "^ '^'- 
hoose and some of the bank btuldiogs, Tbey also 
accused skaien of similarly damagiog numerous curbs, 
railing) and benches in ibc area, be said 

At Purcell's suggestion, ihe group bcid a public 
meehng to hear different penpeaivcs oo Um issue. A 
number d local skaieboarders. particularly those asso- 
ciated with tiDeme Sponj Iw.. sbaued up. TlKii com- 
(Dents, Putcell said, "essentially were, 'why sbouU we 
be penalized or prohibited from itaieboardtng because 
of probably Just a few people who were debdng and 
deanjying piDpeity'''" 





thai any skalc- '''"'° ^y "*" Dhlsria jJlu,™ „ ^i' 

boarders caught SkBt6boafdif&gt;g itunU whidi reeiuira ttiB gkateboaid to loavo Ihe hT^T^ Xa 

behaving in ibis Qroufwl. h'vs b»Bn prohWted in cadain cily areas. when be skaies ii 

manner by police the day. be and Fences aniund il 

will result in cooTiscation of ibe skaieboanj and a S50 his fiicndi iry lo avoid areas where ottKr peopk: migbi People would 



be. Usually, ibough. be adds, "we skate al 

Adaios noted two Incoiuisiencies with tbe ordi- 
and what be sees as the skater's reality: "Tbe 



4 local skalar descends a sat o( sl 



cous vobiage of younger trowd." but "was received fine by ihe more 
the ofTtinanre, He mature skaters who undcniood Ihe ramllicaiioDs of 
kiwws the consc- landing on your bead." 

quences bis ADotber proUem that Byanski said be and bis staff 

actions may bring eiperieoccd waa negative rcactjon lo tbe "small foe" the 
him. He has yet 10 park charged skaters lo pay for its operating ctKts. 
be cited even *niiere wereobieclionsfranniany ofibcskaiersio this 
tbough. as be because tbey Ibougbl tbey sboukjn'l have had lo pay 
aoythingif it wasacity park." 

Subsequently the park started lo suffer "pretty 

severe vanrtallqn," ByanikI said, "Lotsof graffiti, pbys- 

jcai damage, Ibe facility was bnd^en into at night 

cuL Locks 00 the gate were cul 

fence m skate after hours. 



Tta two conflicting faaions evennoUy discussed T^"* City Hall source said Ibai owners cwukl put ijp any main premiseofskaieboording is that it wasn't designed just come bxk.' 



Tbey would cut ibe lock off tbe covering of ibe electri- 
cal control box so that they could lum on Ihe ligbu at 
"IghLTbepolice would tell the kids lo leave but they'd 



n ortinance which would address the "Sn&gt;i^il*y w™i«l id, and could call ibe police if Ibey 
isorprtqjenyowncnabouidamagedoneioibeir »=*" ought anyone breaking their resoicJiotis. S' 
property, yet 




Dansportaiion. least: 

fonn of reoiaiio 

IbaL-He 

the board's wheels leaving the ground, the 
dototnanl violation in the ordmance. 

He explained diaj his other problem 
wilh [be ordinance is more a lack ofappro- 
piiale skating kxaudiu, "1 skale m Leo, 
but all we have here is litde curve*, liitle 
benches. It's pretty drag. We 
doc'l really have any place to 
^ skate, except downtown, bul 
il's illegal, it'd be so mud) 
betta if ibey'd just build a 
stale park so all the people 
could go 10 a certain place to 
skate the sniff tbey want lo 
skale and keep ot 
body's hair, sIihx 
be such a big problem down- 

Tbe idea of a skale park 
is one ibal many skaters share. 
About tbe same time that 
skaters, property owners and City Councd 
tnonbers were discus.suig the rev 
tbe ordinance. Eitreme Spons lac. 
to build a skale park as a 'T;&gt;iivale cooeiie- 
neurial eObrt oo ibcir own." Purcell said. 
An effort sud) as this wouU be hi ^y cost- 
ly and would take lots of energy and time 
to put ir&gt;gether. Purcell said. He said thai 
tbe Extrone Sports Inc. effort has cooil 
likely "evaporaied," 

Purcell said that Fort Wayne Parks 
and Recreation has "Interest ' ' ' 



Byan&amp;ki said ihat "participatton almost dropped to 
zero," and "interest waned drsnutically " He said that 
Parks and Recreation "could oo longer afford lo be in 
business out iheie-noi for a handful of kids " V^mdalism 
also was cmlinuoui. Byanski said two other minor 
issues played .1 role in tbe park's downfall: the fact ibai 
some slaters didn't like to be told where to skale. but 
would skaic where tbey pleased, not at a park: and at the 
Hue. there were several dilleieni cliques of skaier5-or»e 
griMip Byaiuki called 




well." Byanski i 
Ihat finally 
reacbed a point w 
enough was enough." 
and tbe skate park was 



stale park. Adams and h 

c ool deterred. They'll go oo skal 

I everywhere," just as Ibey have hi 

cautious to call himself lieGanl. As be said. 

skateboarding ii Just sctnetbing be enjoys. The only 

place he can really do il. in ibe way thai be says it was 

meant m be done, happens lo be prohibited He docs not 

consitierbunself anything like die "innmidaung" person 

thai Byarnti said coaay adults perceive young skaters 

Uke him to be. "You know dKy'ie wearing ibc big 

doing baggy panis today, and they've got yellow hair, with 



Tbeu 



Pholo by Tim Olaiari* ^°'°'''^S wi* a group ^^^ *a°U lo build their names carved hi tbe back of ibeii bckls. Some 

n A kical skalors rid« an exposed odga in dowritown fijrt WayiiB, Marw etmcma foalttfos aijt* as a state part." Bui. as his co-worker Jerry adults are saying ihey'U never amount to a hill of 

. roads, curta,ar&gt;drarT&gt;ps are cc&gt;nshtefed'idoar (Of akalars 10 ptadbe their bfcka on S&gt;'""^' ^"P'"?'^'"^'" "L^Jf^ b^," Byanski says "Well, one of the young ladies 

1 oi«Kiaw«iiiinii uifcMvii, Reoeation Said, We are nol budgeted fOT who waiinvolvedwiihuslactin 1985 wasalinle tiny 

y things like this. We have to rely on others gal wbo had purple hair, black lipstick and earrings 

Ihe Senior Ciliieii Cento- pcmises, abound in many area shopping cenioi, arTxmd tbe mall to accomplish many of the things we do," Fon Wayne everywhere. She was real, real quici. She was kinda like 

effect February »bd 5" campus. Most notably Ihey are visible at both Parka and Recreaiion is no stranger to tbe skateboarding a groupie-sbe fallowed ibe skaiers around, [f you had 



o skaicboanis, 



23. 1999. prubibits spedTic behaviors 
and various other "wbeelmg devices," in certain down- 
1. AcccpTdmg to tbe otdinaDce, the behaviors 
t defined as 'operanon of a skaleboard„ui a 
xb tbat tbe wbce Is... leave the ground It is fur- 
mean tbe use of disability ramps, steps, 
s„xutb or gutter edges. sculptures... or 



nance 97.49 has b 



parking garages. "Skateboarding," said Campui Police or skate pmk issues, Byanski washeavlly involved with been a real hard core adult and you looted at her and the 

dispaidier Bill Campbell, "is illegal all over campus " ibe planning, cooMnKtkn and adminisiratiau of ttie resi of her crowd you'd haie itioogbi 'they're iie\-er 

He nous, however, that collier the activity nor damage now demolished skateboard f^ity at East Swinocy going w amount lo anything ' Tbday she works for the 

from it tavt "occurred laicly," TtU-iale aada of skate- Park. ciiy of Fort Wayne, She is one of the Neighboitumd 

boarders [lacticing nicks oo two low siooe walls just Thai park, which was open briefly m the mid Advocaies. She's a grown up woman and ter bfe is 

north of the Library, he said, are not recenL 1980s, came to fttiilion wilb the combined effort of completely differeni today from wbal it was wten she 

Smce^lis incorporadoo m the City Codes, crdi- Parks and Reaeatioo staff, student labor from tbe was a kid. We all go dirough these phases ui out lives. 

" '" " ai hy pnpcny ownera as an Regknal VocaUonal School (now ibc Anttiis C^rEci Wiat you are now, you're ooi going lo be In ten yean." 

effective solulkM, "I think Center), Input from local 

they're happy wilb II." skaters and mouy from en [ 

Purcell said "Tie problem anonymous donor. Byarnti 

isn'i nearly as severe as believes ibe park was "slate j 

before. For die most part. I oC the art" Tbe input for ibe I 

ttiink people are obeying the design bmJ ttie many ' 

ordinance. Word bu gooea niresof ibepark"canul 

out to skaiebovden thai kids io Fixl Wayne who bad | 

they iKed to behave respon- been traveling and going E 

sibly," boo) skate park lo stale park 

Germs of vandal- and bad pdcked up design 

isn have, however, infcsied elements and had shared 

Ibis seemingly benign fault iticm with us," ByansU said. 

line: Infuriated Couniy "We pU all the ttungt that 

Cotnmiulonen Jack we were asked to put in there 

McComb Bd Ed Roitueau by our adviser skateboard- 
accused tkaieboardos of era." He said thai ttte park 

damaging "a 100-fbol Iron bad ■ half pipe, a quarter 

taillag H tbe City-County pipe and a large, flat paved 

BolUing'' oo Sqxembcr 30, pialn for a free siyk; area. It 

1999, according to a was an open air facility, be 

Jounal-Gaireoc anick, Tbe said 

article noted Itial d:ie dsnage ByaosU said thai the 

would "cost taxpayer! about opening itays of ihepark saw 

Pheio bv Todd Htrrm FaatutM Etftof ^***'" flO'"*'*" *« '"i'* ol people, both «pec- 

mmg jtra north ol Hdmk, Llxary .t«v« Ihe soar, (eft by STS^?^ S'^l^s^ SSStglf i.yl'S^ T«o broker, skaleboarda loan against a wall ir 

&lt;Ung. TMt poUcy is if yoo ite kUa BkMe. As dme went and IPFW student Tim Dlelsrle's photographs. 





TN» 

okateboenfen prsdidng Irnks, 



RNnares 



The Communicator Page S 



By Todd Hamm 

Feaoxre aEdlw 

Mil 



Msmm 



The iuxy of bow Rerce 
became Vie Bcar'i Dick is ai col- 
orful ai his on-air peisonalily. "I 
luned u a wein) bd-just alwayi 



ado] np tkiiii ttaeic pbcoc biu for ■ guy unwd 
Woody, (be Bctf olgbi DJ ai ttae tlnK." Pknx bega 
InuniiQg tor Woody Ld Oclober c/ I99S. Woody, Ik 
uid. "imgbi me mott at what I kmw lodiy aboM bow 
U) do [bis sOitf." 

Pioxc uarud wortiog wccteodi as t D} foribe 
uaiioo. Meanwbik, be made "Tumiy longi and aXKk 
ODmmeiciili' for Woody ind bimself . When Woody Wt 
(be sution. Plate look ova nighu full-time. Me also 
began making simitar soogs aod commefctalj for [^ 
Dvii and Hammet moniiiig ibow. 

"Ii's ibe absolute bet! ouUel for wbo I am." be uiJ 

of bis job. "I've wnted nally hard lo plcaic the suiu 

:dan OD the air-and 1 takE 11 ai/. 

They really trust mc to do 

"That whole Howard Stem thing! 



RAdio sutioa 9B,9 71k Bes's Ok±. Ibe 
ladio penoDaliiy with ifae lop-rated nigbi sbow in Fori 
Wayoe, recently retioquubcd bii job lo Brtao KmdalL 
[&gt;ick is now ibe sialioi'i image director and the lecboi- 
C3j producet for tbe Elvis and Hanuna Morning Show. 
[&gt;on'i worry, cboogh. he'U aho cmtiaue hit job at ao 
on-air penonaliiy dunng mornings aitd on weekmdL 

In a nMxni inicrvtcw. Dick. i±.i 20-year-old 
IPFW studcnl Chadd Picitx. tallied about, ammg other 
Ihlngi. how he got into tbe biz. life. IPFW.Fon Wayne Enough to get lou of 
and. of couTK, tbe Bear's war 
against MeoUica. 



■Chadd Pierce 



rigblatidljuitdowhail ' 
It's really g/eal Ibal my 'neinj- 
cess' bas a lioine somcwbcie 
tbai I can really succeed.*' 

Wortdng as a DJ, Pierce said. 
is never the ioitm from one day 
ID tbe neiL He's met loals ol 
celebriiies-Tommy Cbong. tbe 
members o( hard core band 
Sialic X, comedian Gallagbci 



is about due to make a down- 
ward slope. Maybe if s time for a 
God of all media?" 

ed. "1 always loved cartoons and 1 
could impcnonalc. with my little, 
scrawny, pre-pubesceni voice, a 
Iwofebaracters," 

Tbe voice turned out 10 be peileci for prank phone Megadeth fioniman Dave Muitaine, RuPaul andYeif 

calls. "I found out about (be Jerky Boys and Ibdr cdi. Ganrei's bald head to name a few. And he's baS some 

Tbcydidthe best bits I've ever beaid." be said. He md interesting advenOircs. Piaix said orte ot'his favorites 

his fnends siaiiol batiaging local businesses witb calls happened 'somewbere around the second week I was an 

complaining of vanous calamilies like having limbs intern." when be "got a stripiea.^ from a gorgeous 

maimed from using (beir products. t)rK lime one of (be bkmde groupie." Altbough the '^mpredictabilily" aid 

other guys called up a pioa place and sianed lo get into uncenainiy of the job is part of what keeps him workmg 

something, but he lost it and hung up laugbing. Enici there. It someiinvs does make for tense siluaiioiu. One 

CaUerlD. SoberelampelcDding tobetbeboy'sabu- New Year's Eve be was "panicking" bis bead o9 

slve fatbo and the piiza guy was actually begging me because "the guy wbo was supposed to call in and help 

not to beat bim anymore by the end of his call back, me do tbe counidown bom the conesponding Be* absoluidyoneofihebesilhaveiao,Cncaipc&lt;Tle.nlce 

Victory!" Pany at tbe fireworks slww didn't" '"^ "'"' ""'' "'"" " 

Ihea he tried pranking radio sialions. Tini I Other than thai downside. Pierce docsn' 




«of tt 



: early '90s and had some great atany complainis. Tbe Bear's staff, b 



slulf." Pierce said. Bui be quil calling wben tbe station grtup of friends 
was "flushed and bougbt t^ Sieve Shine" (aod subsc- was his sure-Hre 
quenlly melamorpbcscd beyond rccogniUoo). He got 
bock into pranking a few other stations, but "evenually 




Pholot courlaiy ol ChaM Plan:* have lo lay thai, aldiougb I'ni 



Al flisi avoiding the questiOD of his future 
goals, be joked thai be bad his 
sights SCI 00 usurping Howard 
Stan's cutreni "Kfaig of all Media" 
gig. That whole Howard Stem 
ibing is aboul due lo make a down- 
ward sbpe. Maybe it's time for a 
God of all media?!" 

He enplained. though, Ibai bis 
goals superceded tbal wtiidi Ibe 
Fort Wayoe radio matlel could 
support. Fort Wayne, be said, was 
simply "not big enough when it 
comes lo ntakiog a major ladio 
carter. The larger (be dly. ihe high- 
er up on tbe food chain you gel. I 
wish my goals maiched up with 
what I could achk^-c here." 

Pierce's pal and felkiw on-air 
personality Tbe Gasman Mall 
Itailuio corroboiaicd Pierce's concerns: '1 guaranice be 
won'l be doing radio in Fon Wayne forewr so enjoy 
bim while you can." 

Pioce has no other major differences ttiui ■ mi 
Wayne, "I've lived in this dly all my Lfe." be said, "1 ^''""ib' "° twEht. 



J ^^^ e al IPFW, Pierce Is a soptomore trying lo 

, "ana ^"'^y "nisss media." He's ihinkiDg about switching lo 
■ . ■ journalism or political science because, he said, "die 
university -and (bis may sound bad~|ust doesn't caie 
enough to giv-e Ibe program ihe money it lequhes to ful- 
fill die Deeds of pe(q)lc who are really serious aboul 



He added (hal be loves Ibe 
school, eves though be thinks that 
"tbe sludcQi attitude kind of sucks 
sometimes." He explained further 
thai "temg a 'convenient' campus, 
people who go there Just do wbal 
Ibcy need lo do and leave. No 
mailing fncnds, no banging ouL I 
don' I know what other campuses 
are like, but ours is a lillle boring. 
And don'i get me started on the 
parking lots! Talk aboul a ical 
world simulaiion-ii's p telly 
vicious oul tbCTB " 

On the topic of music. Pierce 

said thai he was "a pretty rounded 

music fan." wbo liked new metal 

and rap lodc siuff. but also ge(s 

Hendrii and ihe Doors, loo " He said ibai be 

inls" and "rock jusl for the soke of some loud 

\ cunenl cd in bis disc player righi now is 

Pq„ Beck's Mellow Gold, which also happens lo be the first 



I UimK He's tuimy as 
very talented. He has a rare 
natural talent for radio pro- 
duction. Being as young as 
he is brings a fresh attitude 
and outlook to the station. I 
guarantee he won't be doing 
radio in Fort Wayi forever 
so enjoy him while you can." 

-77ie Gasman. Matt Talluto 



likes "wi 






Tbe to. 



record labels aiMl the music industry is thai kical tonds 
Ihink that is it. That's ibe place m be. and if you A)n't 
get that, you are nothing. It's depressing bow mnsi ol ibc 
local bands 1 bear all warn lo be huge, but think it's some 
Wg shark lank where you've got lo crap on all Ihe oibcr 
guys to get ihete, Tbe big iblng with L.A. and ScaiUc 
was tbe unity among Ibe musicians and ibc keen liuigbl 
to Ibe reality ibaia 'record deal 'just means you were in 
tbe right i^bcc ai the rigbi time, and itotbing can make 
you a belter band cicept for yourselves. Tlic fame 
comes with the dcdicaiion." 

The Bear's recent oo-air battle with MebUllca over 
their enormous legal attack on Napsia and its hundreds 
of thousands of uscr^ Pierce said "was all just a big joke 
00 the idea ihai people arc anually pissed about all Ibis. 
Ii was really just an ewuse 10 give away a bunch of free 
CDs." 

People ask bim about bis station's affiliation with 
Ibe Napsicr/Mclallica war all the time, but Pierce jusi 
thinks Ibal the whole issue is somewhat absurd. "I like 
Mciallica. They .ve not the best band in history, but ibcy 
are sitting right nexiio Led ZeppeUn on die bus of suc- 
cess, if they and ibeir lawyers decide lo prosecuie peo- 
ple for tneaking the law, ihlt's beyond my conlrol. It 
certainly can't sway my opinico of Ibeir music-l don'i 
wort like (bai Tbey lie doing somc(bing that is very 
opposite to the attitude ih^ made them famous, and tl^y 
can do that because they are Mctallica." 

I^lch Chadd Pierce in his new gig as technical 
producer for The Elvis and llammer Morning Show. 
Also look for his presence on that show, as well as on 
weekends al tbe Bear. Check out tbe Bear's web site al 
www.989tbe bear, com foe plenty ol infoimation on Ihe 
stallon. its stalfojid events il ipoiuors. 



Cedar Point Trip 2000 




Attention students Cedar 

Point tickets are on sale for 

$30. The bus willl be leaving 

August 4, for this annual 

event. Price includes 

breakfast, transportation and 

admission stop by Walb Union 

Room 225 to sign up today. 




We/come to 

Student 

Computing 



IPFW 



A major part of your academic life will 
ralvc using computers to slay 
mpciiiivc and progrt;ss in your 
urscwork. At IPFW, you'll use 

■^ To e-mail instructors 

•% To access your student infc 

drop/adri courses, and marc with 

OASIS (Online Access to Student 

Inrormation Systems) 
•% For research via ihc Web and the 

Helmkc Library ditabase systems 
■% To jcccs.-! course materials — many 

instructors post syllabi, assignments, 

and other material on the Web 
"% To prepare assignments in ivord 

proce.i.sing, spreadsheet, and other 

;quircd by in.structors 



Student Computing 
Infoimation on the Web 

For tho lalsst In IPFW computing 

inform a lion, visll tha Sludenl CompuUne 

Resources Web sIlo (or, In tho labs, click Ihe 

Home butlon In Netscape). 

http://www.its.ipfw.edu/ 
students 



'pp'''^- 



Student Computing Resources 




There ifcOvtr^SOSr 



Icni Accos conipiiio (PC&lt; ini sua) in 9 libi in i buildinp imju ampiit ^d ^ &lt; 
n&gt; dulribulcil in c.tr) building jaou campus. All lih&gt; art equipped .viih (mjgc inj 
mg. Zip dull dnifi, CD-RO.M ind lound rapibiili; (iviih ujir-iuppli(d hijJpJiooi] 



F-njil inA Prrmnil Wrh PuhliAira &lt;|&gt;in- 






iludrnu n&lt;i; rar&gt;nnl ihcU Mudenlc-niii] umunli cl&gt;e»lxre. Eid&gt; iiudtnl uid ufTiciil IPHV orguiHiiloni 

OAfiiS irinlinr Afrrn In fln.-l.-nl lnr»rm.lir,n S^lrn..! hlip://o.ll..lpr».cdll- 

OASIS »ill illo» .ludcnti Dnimt icecii to ihcir mrarmilion &lt;tD»d on IPF^V, Student inron 
OASIS PINiircnbuined from ihcHc):iiuii'&lt;onice. 




' Page 6 Thf Commnnlcator 



Spoils 



IPFUJ to descend upon Memorial Stadium 




mjei ai MemorUl 
Sudiam. Jake Pcavy 
wu the winoiiig jiicba 
(at Ibc Wbanli. Hie 19- 
ycai old rigbi-hmder 
toreibrougb ibeDtsgoa 
lineup (a lix imiiagi u 



Scfaeichuk drove in 



Od Friday, Jaly H. IPFWxSAB uiU 

aim(h(i&gt;rFon Wayne Wtzanli baie- 

I baO. Tbt Wiiaids. Clau A afliliaic of ibc 

I Sib Diego PtAet, will play ihc Laasmg tiiimig and &gt;ca«l Rvt 
I LuguiU, Ctau A alTilialc of die Qucago mat in UK ibinj imi 
I Cuba al 7 pm. al Manofial StaUun. Brian Ward valked t 
1 lalLc, Ibc DiajDoDd Dog. will be in aoeo- ihe baies loaded 
1 ihoce and after (be gaoie. ibciz will be a make il 1-0. Jotm 
I rirewcwU preseoiatioo, 
I pncc. S2 for soxJcnu wid 
I arul S3 ror aO Mbers, coru 
I of aa tll-you-can cal picnic! 
I berorc ibe event, aiimluioa 
ibe game and a free touvec 
A dnwmg will be beld al 
fj picnic to see who will throw ibe" 
[ ccieiDoiua] pildL 

On luly 10. Ihc Wiiardj (10-9) 
- defeated Ibc DaytniDragorts (13-6) 12-3. 
Ibe Diagooj came Id Fon Wayne over die 
J weekend and look Ibe {iru three games ol 
uttei Mmcwhai eftnnlculy. llie 
I Wij^nb scored only four naa. losing ibc 
Pholo by Unda Latlta, Spent Edhor first (tanc games of a four-game series to iwo lu 
Oir&gt;gei 1h« Dragon, was dedicalsd on ibe Dragoo). Tlie Wizards' ofTcnsc rinally Wizard 

Noveirt»r 2, 1998, as Ihe rww logo fw the exploded for five runs in die 

Wizards 




- ^ 








i 



and DtKxbet sL 



I nnisb Ibe 



rally wben tbey were I 
down 6^. In the i 
endi. Dayton hit in 

n a Nraoge dgbib I 
ig, ibey picked u 
- after tw 

P/iofo by Ui^da Leiln, Sportj frfro. 
'-diu. ahiibauman aodUenyinalSladium was cc(tstrtjctadml993 tor SS.S million. Ths Cas)t«* capacity is 7 200 On 
IJ. Trujillo balk. July 14, ihe WaBrds will play Lonsir)g, IPFW sludents iwlh a valid ID onfy hava lo pay S2 



Uolleydons Camp for boys and girls 




Fram July 17-20. coedtes Kelly 
Hartley and A/nie Ball and various 
IPFW athletes will bou a caap bran S 
ajn. ID Doon for grades 5-S for SSO 
arid an advanced camp from 6-10 p jn. 
for grades 9-12 for SSO. During ibesc 
times, die Gales SpoHs CaiieT gymna- 
sium will be closed. 

Hartky, d&gt;e bead coach for Ibe 
wODEa's volleyball leaiii. coodicd a 
24-8 overall reaxd lul season. 
Daring bei rm yea wlib IPFW. she 
led Ibe Dons to a 24-g overall mark 
and a IJ-I GLVC ittxmi (tecood 
plaix). She also sert-es as die Smior 
Women's AdakMstraKir for the alblet- 



lo 1998. sbe was the bead vol- 
P/iolotyfjViitoLBi*. Spora l=yball coach al Robert Morris 
£-£,^of College, a NCAA Division I volley- 



Coach Kelly Hanloy sarves *^ 1 



1 Walsh University, 
10 back-u&gt;-back Mid-Ohio CToDfereiice 
ChampioQsbips and NAIA Regional 
Toumamenl bcrlhs (1996 and 1997.) 
Wbllc at Walsh Univcisiiy, sbe com- 
piled a reeont of 131-44 (.749 win- 
ning pertcmage) in four seasofu.arid 
won die Mid-Otuo Codferaice Coaii 
of the Year honors iw»:e (1996 and 
1997). Tbe Vidleydoos' coacb Ball 
bad a 23-4 overall rcmd last season. 
Ball coa±ed die IPFW woncn's 
volleyball team from 19gl-19S8, win- 
Ding die Cheat Lakes Valley 
Cooferetice four times and earning a 
spot in Ibe NCAA Division II 
Toumamenl In I9B7 and 19S8. He 
ended bis eight-year siini wiUi Ibc 
women's program with an overall 
record of 231-102. 

Ball's DivisioD D program has 
c^Murd live of Ibe last aine Midwest 
Iniercolleglaie VoUeyball Associaiioo 
Championsbqis and bad NCAA Final 
1 1991. 1992. 1994 



Tarrtoons 

by Eric Tair, Editorial G&gt;rtt&gt;orUst 



Kstky was also the bead coocb 



id 1999. 



unicator 




Your Student Newspaper 

is seeking writers for the following 

sections: news, opinion, features and sports. 

PAID POSITIONS STILL AVAILABLE: 
News Editor and Photo Editor 

This is a fantastic opportunity 

to enhance your writing skiUs, learn about your 

campus and obtain marketable experience! 

Stop by Walb 215 and fill out an 

application. You can also e-mail 

us at stupaper@hoImes.ipfw.edu 

or call 481-6584 and speak with 

an editor. 




Some of this season's incoming 
cLus of frcshmeo are all'Slaic 
signees. ParUdpaiing in Class 3A 
All- State are pilcber Dougl- 
McDonaU and shoruiop Mart Simanski. In class 4A are 
ddrd iwu-man Jmtin Budziiuki and oudieldcr Justin 

Incoming fresbman Ehisiin Johnson was awarded 
tbc QianceUor's scbolaiship, Jobnson graduated in die 
iqi five peiceni of bis class and scored a 1200 on the 
SAT, 

Hthletic Department 

Michael Gebl will no longer be die heal oihledc 
trainer al IPFW. He will be replaced by ao albleuc train- 
er &amp;om Sprwl One Sports Medicine, Sport One bas (wo 
clinics located in die Fori Wayne area. 



Milliard Gates Center 

Jim Thurbcr Is die new personal trainer, Tburber 
gniduaied Irom Manchester College with a degree in 
physical education and bcalth management and bas a 
bcaldi fitness certiTicadon from die American College of 
Sports Medicine, For over 15 years, be has been afiine&amp;s 
insmicior and persona] trainer in die Fon Wayne area 
and In die Indianapolis area. 

Thurber will joining Rebecca Byikei, Jerry DiehL 
Beau Krafft, Eric Moore and Judy TiUapaugb If you 
would Idle mote informalion cad JS 1-6647 or 48 1 -6655. 



Columbia Street West 



M.O.M.S. 

$3.50 Pitchers 
$1.00 Drafts 
$1.50 Miller 
longnecks 



Mon &amp; Wed 
$1.75 Longnecks 



135 WEST COLUMBIA STREEF 

HTTP;//CSTREETW .COM 
219-122-5055 

Underground 
Wednesday's 



Forts bejl D ) |.ick Akshur 

plays "house music." 
■Free ptiu Durfel 10 p m 




JULY 2000 



