University 



Purdue University 



Fort Wayne 



Wednesday, April 6, 2005 



INSIDE: 



Volume 35, Issue 26 




Dropping the Bomb 

Local band uses improve 
enhance the Summit City 
PAGEA6 



12 Pages, 2 Section* Free 



THIS WEEK ► 



IPFW plans hotel on campus 



public discourse. P»ga AS 



■ In 'Off the Held' this week, Dan 
Vance talks to baseball player 
Keegan Laycodc Page 64 

■leffTungate named associate 
head coach of IPFW men's bas- 
ketball team. PageB2 

h Billy Germon won 



• Baseball a 
his 100th game at if 
Page B2 



■ State of the Arts: Media repents 
from sins, embraces religion. 
PageA7 

Students in 
Rome join 
in mourning 
Pope 

From Staff Reports 



for i 






i $12 million full-service hotel 
and park project in spring 2006. 

"We have spent .i while planning (his project, and 
feel that it will give more opportunities io students and 
the broader com n m nil \." -..ml ll'l u ( haiicellor Michael 
Wart ell. Focus Development Corporation will oversee 
the construction of the privately funded Holiday Inn. 

The hotel is to be built to the west of IPFW across 
the Saint Joseph River. 

IPFW and the Coliseum had been negotiating the 
hotel plan with Focus since 2003. 

Wartell said that IPFW has long collaborated with 
Ivy Tech, the Memorial Coliseum and other members 
of the community to make such projects possible. The 
area to be developed, which IPFW owns, had been 
leased, but that contract came to an end this year, mak- 
ing the new project possible. 

Ivy Tech's vice president, Ion Rupright. agreed. 
"This is only the most recent example of institutions 
working together for the good of the community, and 

" Tiportantly students." 

The hotel development wiil include die construc- 
tion of a park adj.u itit to i In- hotel, which WarteU said 
would be the best river accent in Fort Wayne, and would 
be incorporated with the river greenway. 

The park will he where Carrington field is now, 
and will feature textured concrete walkways, open 
grass areas and foliage. The park will be maintained 




by Mike Royal / newsraipfwcomrnunicator.org 



HOTEL: Chancellor Wartell explained the 
plans for the hotel at a press conference. 

by IPFW. 

According to Dean Morgan, the President of Focus 
Development, the planned hotel will be a five or six 
story Chicago-style Holiday Inn with 120-150 rooms. 
The ground floor ol ihe hotel would be exclusively for 
conference 



Morgan said that IPFW and Ivy Tech students 
could be incorporated in to all aspect of hotel operations 

including experience in hospitality, finance accounting, 



planning and l.iml |m&lt; |&gt;.&lt;i .ninn and service. "It 
will he unite mi experience for students." he said. 

"This project is another example of the educa- 
:ommunity of Fort Wayne," said Rupright. "It will 
a powerful synergy of educational opportuni- 



hospii.ilny management program will also make use of 
the hotel. 

Mac Parker, Memorial Coliseum board president, 
said thut the planned development would most impor- 
tantly benefit youdi sports in Fort Wayne. 

He spoke of a "sports zone" across Coliseum 
Boulevard that includes IPFW and Ivy tech, the 
Memorial Coliseum, the Splecc Fleldhouse, the Plex 
,iikI other spoils retailers in the same area. 

Wartell also expects the hotel to benefit IPFW and 
youth sports, because visiiing sports learns will be able 
to utilize the hotel. 

Beyond the hotel, construction will involve road 
renovation of Coliseum lino levari I, including a con- 
necting road between Clinton Street and the north 
parking lot of the Coliseum. 

Carrington field, the ballpark where the Snider 
High School baseball team plays, stands where the 
hotel will be bulll .mil will lie relocated within two 
years. The Carrington field has already moved before 
due to Coliseum construction. 

Wartell said (hat the main advantage of the hotel 
will be "proximity." While Inn Wayne has other hotels, 
the distance to IPFW Is a problem. He thinks the new 
hotel will provide a convenient place for prospective 
out-of-town students and parents to stay while visiting 
the university. 




DANCE: The Bangladesh Student Association held 
"Bangladesh Night: Dance with the Tigers" on 
March 4, with food, culture and dancing. 



Supreme Court backs 
Title DC whistleblowers 

■ New ruling protects the right to uphold enforcement of law 



By Stephen Pepple 

speppleOipfwcommunlcator.org 



J discrimination under litle IX could seek 
damages from a university or college if that 
school retaliated against the complaint. 

The five to four ruling in Jackson vs. 
Kitminehain I'm used on the treatment of a high 
school teacher who was fired after voicing a 
complaint of Title IX violations at the school 
where he had coached. 

In 2002, the lackson case was dismissed bj 
the Alabama slate supreme court, and tbereloie 
the suit was appealed to the Supreme Court. 

The Supreme Court concluded that it 
intended In provide whistle blower suits as pari 
of the original Title IX law, but reali/ed tins 
clause needed reinforcement. 

Justice Sandra Day O'Connor ruled that 
even "retaliation against a person who com- 
plains ahooi se\ disc riohnai ion is in itself a form 
of sex discrimination under Tide DC" 

The Supreme Court move was, in pan, a 
response to the U.S. Department of I dm ai ion's 



The Department of Education's policy 



The square itself, however, 
remained suspended in time. 

"Even though 1 didn't get 
there until around 1 a.m., the 
piazza was still filled with thou- 
sands of people singing, crying 
and clapping," the Notre Dame 
junior said. "There were back- 
packers with pillows sleeping 
under the columns, there were 
tiny altars set up all around the 
square, there were people with 
rosaries staring up at the pope's 

because everyone present was 
so emotional." 

Sinnott, who is studying 
In Rome this semester, was not 
the only Notre Dame student 
to experience the immediate 
aftermath of the (14-year-old 
pope's death. 

The impact of John Paul 
lis death was felt intensely on 
the city streets, junior Laura 
Mull aney said. 

"Rome has been quieter 
► MOURN: Page A? 



ipsry 



Passion for the environment 

■ IPFW Biology professor focuses on research and students 



By Nichole Hacha-Thomas 



Although biology professor Debts Ross 
never set out to become an educator, she leaves 
room for the belief that teaching is in her blood. 
Both her mother and grandmother were teachers 
before her, with her grandmother teaching in a 
one-room schoolhousc. In addition, her daughter 
is studying abroad to teach English as a second 
language. 

Enchanted with Ihe biological sciences early 
on, Ross initially wanted to pursue a medical 
career. But after getting involved with environ- 
mental issues, she dei icled Io jppl\ her love and 
protecUng and cleaning 



Ross is originally from California and st 

Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



on to finish her 
i England. After 
nding Cornel University to get her master's 
degree, she moved to New Jersey to pursue a 

Ph.D. For part of her studies. Ross worked with 

i leaning up oil spill- M'ter completion, Hoss said 

she began a jnl&gt; m &lt; im in i working for Proctor 

and Gamble in a large environmental safety tJiv i 



"They were concerned with whether their 
detergents were biodegradable, and the effects 
that their detergenls had on the environment 
overall," Ross said. "After a couple of years, I really 
began to be dissatisfied. In industry you have 
to work where ihe profit is. where ihe company 
feels it is rnosl important. I had a number of my 
projects cancelled." 

Ross soon felt she needed a change. 
transplanted ki the Midwest, site came upon 
IPFW in 1985. Like others, she said the faculty 
► PROFESSOR page A3 

I Newsroom: (260) 481-6584 

Fax:(260)481-6045 

Advertising Oept: (260) 481 -6583 
| E-mail: contacl@ipfwcommunicalor.org 



change had been intended to make it easier for 
i nllcges aod universities to comply with the Title 
IX protections. 

The national Office of Civil Rights tests 
a school's compliance with Tide IX by three 
considerations; ihe propnrtiotialiry of athletic 

part it i p nion heiwce ale anil female students 

enrolled In a school, the history and continuing 
practice of equal program expansion for both 
men's and women's i earns .\i\i\ ihe equal accom- 
modation of male and female athletic interests 
at a school. 

Some critics ofTitle fX have argued, though, 
that Ihe statute is actually forcing universities to 
limit the growth and puiential of men's sport in 
order to keep equality. 

In order to keep proportionality between 
men and women's programs many schools have 
cut the size and number of men's programs. 

Title IX was made law in l'J72, and has been 
reconsidered by the Supreme Court r 



If changes in fe le enrollment . 



the NCAA, has dramatically risen over the years 
from about 75.000 students in 1981 to over 
150,000 presently. 

The number of women involved in IPFW 
athletics, for example, has increased by more 
that 20 percent since the early 1990s. 



Students recreate 
mastodon molar 



By Nichole Hacha-Thomas 



Students in the dental 
laboratory technology program 
have succeeded in recreating 
history. In the latest activity 
celebrating IPFW's 40" 1 anniver- 
sary, four students and clinical 
associate professor Albino Perez 
set out to replicate the tooth of a 
mastodon. 

After initially looking to 
make cast impressions of the 
actual teeth of the mastodon 
whose bones rest in Kerder Hall, 
the team found that there were 



original teeth for casting. Perez 
said the large molar — the one 
remaining tooth — was partially 
decayed. To use it to make a 
mold may have destroyed it 
completely. 

"The actual size of that 
was a real challenge," Perez said. 
"We had to upscale everything. 
We are using basic techniques 
as denticians, but for the mast- 
odon scale," 

Working with professor 
James Farlow in the geoscienc- 
es department, the team used 
a reproduced cast loaned to 
them by another professor at 
the University of Nebraska. The 
cast consisted of a section of 
three teeth. 
► MOLAR: Page A3 

■ 4 INDEX: 



!|:.y'K/.-i- 



The Communicator 






Students targeted for using file sharing 



cently ret eivmi a hipl. n 



rcmrwi 


rsNkic. 


Andrew Weffle 


Editor-in-Chief 




mlfleCfffwrernrnuritcat of otg 


ton Wayne, IN 4680S 


K.E. Casey 


Newsroom / Editor 


Managing Editor 


(260) 481-6584 


kKMjaptwt wrwunirairy org 


&lt;wun»*rf*wmM*itWMg 


AJden Bordner 


Advertising 


Advertising Manager 


(260)481-6583 


aboninw*pfwOTxnuniuior(ig 




Katie Pniltt 


Publisher 


Copy Editor 


(2601481-658S 


David Hunter 




News Editor 




Kelly Royal 

Photo Editor 




I^HffifllJflrffll 




lroio»lp(«omniumtjio.oig 


Ml. ml, m It,, opinrira .1 






Anthony Maurer 


!i"""'nr.™ """"* '""" "j 


Sports Editor 


■tudnrt body. A tolumr, 1, solely the 


tmaurert$p(wcommuni«lw dig 








Kelly Lynch 


L?Srt sr,„; .«'.";r.'i.7b" 


A&amp;E Editor 


Ld""™. nndWHu " "llTeTd 










Brianna Belford 


'"""""■.limtaib, 


Page Designer 


email will be verified by telephone or 


WmfflirJranmralaaco 


luir!beTwiM^ ?be" U b^heo ,eP ^ nB 


Steve Pepple 


.odo.™,s™"r* •* 


Chiel Reporter 


U^nt^mrlriM ri°,'»M. 


WW»Pl»t«-"am«g 


™?ir.TdMry'\™efd','."eo 






Dorie Reynolds 


lend will rol be (»bll,r,&lt;d under.., 


Publisher 




teynddrft^Konmiriataag 





s but did not indicale 



and Harvard University eacl 
received one pre-subpoen; 
notice recently from the RIAA. 



Spectator and sily students t 



through the private 
Internet2 network. The RIAA 
previously targeted students 
using public file-sharing pro- 

"I thought since |i2hub] 
s only restricted to univer- 



sal, unclear how t 
tained informatio 
targeted students. 



■nonth.lt is 
e RIAA ob- 
about the 






/in Olivan. o 
; currently I 



about the 
forthcoming subpoenas, 

(hough the university 



university spoke) 
Quinone: 



therefore don't know what 
networks may have been in- 
volved in any of the alleged 
acts or how the RIAA received 



t be reached for com- 
er the weekend. The 
on has previously de- 



f the stude 
ing targeted. 

"I just downloaded files 
like music and movies, and I 
just happened to have them 
stored on my hard drive. I 
wasn't advertising it or any- 
thing. It was just casual." 

Programs such as i2hub 
are so large that they can hard- 
ly be described as private, said 
Dan Peng, who was sued by 
the RIAA in 20D3 for maintain- 
ing his file-sharing site, wake. 
princeton.edu, Peng settled 
out of court with the RIAA for 
$15,000. 



I don't know about that." 

After being warned of the 
pending legal action, students 
are weighing their options. 

"I'm not really sure which 
direction this is going in," Oli- 
van said. "I thought this might 

it's not, so I will probably have 
to seek legal counsel." 

Olivan said he is consid- 
ering challenging the associa- 

Though he may opt to 
settle for what he believes will 
be a sum of $3,000. 

"I was going to try to fig- 
ure out if what they were do- 
ing was legal because i2hub 
was only supposed to be for 



program called i2hub, which 
206 colleges and affiliated in- 



than I have ever known it." she said. "So many people have been 
out either driving or just walking near St. Peter's, but even among 
them it has been almost silenl I here is an t.venvhulming feeling 
til sadness, but also of respect." 

Mullaney called the cycle of praying for the pope before and 
after his death "surreal." 

iv.iitin^l'ni the Ian-si news," Mullaney said. 

"It was incredible to be there with thousands and thousands 
of people — Catholic-., Christians and non-Christians all coming 
together to pay their respects and say some prayers. 

"I know I will never forget how it felt to stand under the 
pope's window with c ount less, n hers, the smell of scented candles 
burning throughout the night, and the sound of one group in par- 
ticular singing songs accompanied by a guitar." 

Junior Caroline Murray agreed, adding she does not expect 
the community's intensity to drop in the coming weeks as the 
&lt; hurch works toward selecting lohn Paul It's successor. 

"The whole city feels the effects of this event — St. Peter's 
Square is the only place in the city that is crowded at all, which is 
unusual for a weekend," Murray said. "It's amazing to be in Rome 
right now. I really feel like I'm living a part of history." 

Notre Dame students studying abroad in Europe were drawn 
to Rome on Easter weekend for a reunion organized by Campus 



to avoid having to settle. If it's 
going to end up costing more, 
though, then I'm not going to 
pursue it. I'll just settle out of 



Spain to meet at the Colosseum for Stations of the Cross on Good 
Friday. Apparently, Good Friday and the events that accompany 
it have always been very special for the pope, even more so than 



his watching our gathering. It was really a memorable experience 
to be in the middle of Rome with Notre Dame kids from all over 
Europe, watching the ceremony with the pope." 

Students were also present at the pope's last public appear- 
ance, which occurred Easter Sunday. 

"Easter Mass wasn't said by IJohn Paul II) obviously, but he 
came out for a blessing at the end. I was there with the Notre Dame 
crowd again, and everyone was cheering and clapping when he 






t he couldn't speak. He 



As the week went on, students w 
nearing his final hours. 

"I would say the overall mood that I've experienced in the last 
day is one of sadness, but also relief, because he's been so sick the 
last lew months," Sinnott said. 

"I know that when the original announcement was made to 






s that traveled from Dublin, I 






GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 



We're hiring students, part-lime NOW and FULL-TIME during summer and breaks! 



Home City Ice 



Flexible Hours and GREAT PAY!! 

Route Delivery Positions Available 

We Offer 10-40+ Hours/Week! 

$6.50 to $12.00+ /Hour 

Great part-time hours are available and we offer schedule f lexibilrty. Work around your 

school schedule with morning/afternoon and weekend hours. 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! ' 

Train in one facility during school, and work in another during summer break! 

Schedule an interview today and bring a friend! 

CALL TODAY: 1 (800)622-6566 



Or visit us at wwv.hoineciiyice.com to till out an online application! 



Buy and sell your current college 
textbooks at The Bookmark. 



We've recently expanded! 




Call Today: 484-B00K 

Located just south of the IPFW campus ... 
North Anthony Blvd. next to Wooden Nickel. 
Hours: Monday - Thursday: 10 - 7 / Friday 10-6 / Saturday. 1 




itbm 
lecture 
&lt;z§erie$ 



Janie 
Fricke 

The Reality of Fame 
and Stardom 



Wednesday, April 13, 2005, 7:30 p.m. 
IPFW Walb Student Union Ballroom 

Janie Fricke has gone from Indiana farm girl to internationally 
acclaimed recording artist. She was born in South Whitley, 
Ind., and raised on a farm where her father taught her how to 
play guitar. From county fairs to corporate trade shows, in live 
concerts or recording studios, and before millions on 
television, Fricke's voice and personality have captivated 
audiences around the world. She has won many awards, 
including Country Music Association's Femaie Vocalist of 
the Year, Billboard Top Country Female Vocalist, Cash Bed 
Top Country Female Vocalist, and Academy of Country 
Music Female Vocalist of the Year, and she was chosen to 
theCountryMusicHallofFame Walkway of Stars. Fricke has 
been nominated twice for the coveted Grammy Award and 
has released 23 albums and 36 hit singles. 

Free public lecture T Free parking 

American Sign Language Interpreter provided upon request. 

Lecture funded by a grant from the English, Bonier, Mitchell Foundation. 



Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity/Equal Access 




123 



Iowa State researchers research alternative fuel 



By Jaclyne Hamlett 



Through this pnnc— , 
^ convince] from .&lt; solid r 
j,il into ,i comlm-nhlc i;.i- 



have found 

native fuel -and it c 

in south central Iowa. 

Roben Brown, professor of 
il engineering .mil tit- 
le Center for Sustain- 
Technolo- 
gies, said he and his team are 
working to improve the process 
of turning Iowa prairie grass ii 



increase the amount ol hytlru- 
eofalter- gen, said lerod Smeenk, project 
be found manager and associate scientist 



Willi such a hefty price tag, 
it could be hard to compete with 
gasoline, despite its rising costs. 
Brown said. 

One reason for the fuel's 
expensive price tag is g.isoline is 



Yet the use of hydrogen 
from grass would benefit Iowa 
farmers, as switch grass is an 



combustion engine. 

Aside from the 
benefits, fuel cell cars are also 
more friendly to the environ- 

Switch grass is drought-re- 
sistant and reduces soil erosion 
o plowing required, it also 



s research. 

"It's fuel cell U'chnolony 
it makes hydrogen interesting 



a useable fuel in the ft 



drogen gas. 

Brown and his team were 
awarded a SI million grant three 
years ago to help them with their 



has been a lot of interest i 
grass," he said. "Our goal is to get 
a pure stream of hydrogen from 



don, chief technology officer of 
i mntliiu'Hioenergy. 

He said in general, compa- 
nies interested in hydrogen re- 
search include British Petroleum, 
Chevron-Texaco, Air Product and 
Chemicals Inc. and Rolls-Royce 






In order lor vehicles to r 
on hydrogen fuel, lie said ve 
cles need to operate with a ft 
cell engine or a modified vers. 
of an internal combustion en- 
gine -- which most vehicles have 

Cars with fuel cells get het- 



15 percent of the 
nation's gas sales, it would reduce 
U.S. dependence on other coun- 
tries, Brown said. 

"It's good national policy to 
have some independence," said 
Kevin Timmer, graduate assis- 
tant in mechanical engineering. 
"It puts us in a better position 
to do the right thing interna- 
tionally." 



The Communicator 
brings home awards 

The Communicator won II awards at the annual Indiana 

Collegiate Press Assui iatinii JIHIS awards. The association rec- 
ognizes achievement by students ;ii university newspapers and 



Wdil&amp;\ 



position at IPI-'VV appealed to her because of the 
balance between the teaching and the research. 
Ross takes full advantage of the researching 



Currently, she is working o 



e of microorganisms to get rid 



nun I) less harmful than the pn'srtu e ol the PAIL 
Ross's job is finding the right conditions I'm 

the microorganisms to work their magic. 

There are various methods; the\ intitule 

aerating the soil, pumping in oxygen, or using a 

large tank to get the environment ready to add the 

mil morgan isms. 



"One of the pollutants I have been lot using 
on is a collection of molecules called PAHs," said 
Ross. "These compounds are found naturally in 
the environment, when wood is burned, or in fos- 
sil fuels like coal. Whenever you have steel mills, 
you have these pollutants being produced. They 
are all over the place." 

The compound becomes troublesome 
in great quantities. Ross points out the Grand 
Calumet River as an example. 

As a result ol the many steel mills in ami 
around Gary, Indiana, the PAH levels are danger- 
ously high 

ingir 



According to Ross, the use of microorgan- 
s to purify is hardly a new concept. Fort Wayne 
been using it for years to clean the sewage 



for the compound. 



t the biggest changes are still 
roming in the future She mentioned the plans of 
the new hotel on campus on the other side of the 

"It will be wonderful to have a conference 
facility on campus," Ross said. "Then they, 
ing about adding 
dimming pool 
e for the future. 

Aside from her work, Ross likes to explore the 
artist within. 

She tries to lake a fine arts class as oiten as 
she can find time, she particularly likes studying 
three dimensional art and said she hopes to con- 
tinue to follow that passion. 



mastodon mol; 

Once Perez had the mastodon teeth, the 
students look the relatively simple task ol making 
a mold ol teeth and applied it on a much grander 

During a live demonstration given by the 
department, I'ere/ explained how they accom- 
plished that task. 

After fashioning a shoehux into the impres- 
sion tray lor the mold, lltev affixed the borrowed 
teeth to the box tup. They mis over 15 cups of solu- 
tion before moving to the n 



i be removed, leaving a 



magazines, as well as yearbooks, online public 

Scott Lawson, former editor ol I he ( omumnicator. brought 

y "Justly M 

ler parlnei 

Deadline News R 

Another noteworthy award included I awson's story about 

IPRV's "Snperlau." last year's local sports fan who was found to 

have a criminal past. The award was tot Hest Investigative Story 



anil thiol in Sports feature Writing. 

Other winners are K. I , t asey, who received second place for 
best Column and kelh lioyal, who won second for best News fea- 
ture Story; former Arts &amp; I nieitainmeni I thtor Knrlis Meyers won 
two awards, one lor best I ntertainment feature Story (first place) 
and the .alter lor Hest Inside Page Design, lony Maitrer and I aw 
son collaborated on an award-winning series, 'Dorm Life." and 
Kelly lynch won second plate tin Kesi I diurnal Cartoon, 

Two current stall members. Andrew Wei Me anil Aiilen llord- 
nerwerc elected to the l( PA student Hoard Weltle joins the board 
as the Vice President ol Small Newspapers while liotdner became 
the Vice President of Print Advertising. 

Over forty publications took home :t-IJ awards at the ■16th 
annual o 



week earlier to recreate just one set ol leetb, hut 
after their success, they were asked to make ID 
more. The additional teeth will be mounted on a 
wooilett plauue and will he given to fort Wayne 
&lt; otntniiniiy Schools to incorporate into its sci- 



is will use the teeth lor educational [litipos 



iveling display.. .in this 



mixed the stone powder and added it to the large 
mold. A machine works to vibrate out all hobbles 
in the solution. 

"The finished tooth is over lour pounds of 



IPPW's geology department has procured 
ost I!OI) cobbles from nearby rock quarries. 

Not only will school children benefit from 
I'ere/. and his students' work, the students them 
selves feel they have learned a great deal from 
their participation. 



USA POKER CLUB PRESENTS "POKER FOR POVERTY" 



TEXAS HOLDER! POKER TOURNAMENT 



FORT WAYNE CITY CHAMPIONSHIP 



April 12th &amp; 13th - 6:00 PM 

Scottish Rite Center, Fort Wayne, IN 



Must be 18 years old to play. No entry fee. 

A $20 DONATION IS REQUESTED 

(Man of Honor is our Motto) 




CITY CHAMPIONSHIP PAYS OUT 20 PLACES! 

TO PREREGISTER AND HAVE A SEAT GURANTEED, VISIT: 

WWW.USAP0KERCLUB.ORG 



DON'T MISS THIS YEAR'S BIGGEST TEXAS H0LDEM TOURNAMENT! 



FIRST PLACE WINS: 



• Impressive Championship Trophy 

• 8 day/7 night Carnival Cruise' 

PLUS your .hoiieoln DIRECT SEAT in either: 

WPTARUBA(35tol) 

or the 

MONSTER INTERNET TOURNAMENT 

with a 

$ 1,000,000 GRAND PRIZE PURSE! 

$50,000 ash, New Hurley-Davidson, Sun Chaser Pontooon Boot, 2005 Lexus, 

His &amp; Her Jet Skis, 7 Day Carnival Cruise, 7 Days in Cancan Memo, 

7 Days in Jamaica, 7 Days Las Vegas, and more! 




The Communicator 



►■.F.Caw*«*W|«)t*or 



Podium 



Wf*odjy,Afrf6.M05 



Opinions • Editorials ' 














,y^ p £&gt; 



Staff Editorial 



Kelly Lynch / klyncri@ipfwcommurticator.o 



Bad timing for new hotel on campus 



According to IPFW and Memorial Colise- 
um officials, a Holiday Inn can change every- 
thing. And now, such a hotel is going to be built 
on IPFW property near the Coliseum. 

The idea to build a hotel on the IPFW cam- 
pus would be an excellent one if the university 
were of a caliber to necessitate a hotel on cam- 
pus. 

While we are a regional presence, we are 
not so well known nor do most of our students 
come from so far away that we must have a ho- 
tel for visitors or parents of students. 

We do not have large enough lectures, 
gatherings or events for the hotel to seem 
necessary. Furthermore, the destruction of 
Carrington field to create a park that "would 
focus on fitness and the disabled," according 
to a News-Sentinel report, does not erase the 



fact that Snider High School will now lose its 
baseball diamond. Community places, such as 
a high school baseball diamond or a park, are 
completely different projects that cannot sim- 
ply substitute one for another. 

Because there is no obvious benefit for 
IPFW students outside of the hospitality and 
tourism management department, other fac- 
tors should be examined. What one finds is 
that the true benefactor from this decision is 
the Coliseum and Fort Wayne businesses. 

Indeed, that is what the plans are entailed 
for. This decision is not for IPFW students, fac- 
ulty or staff; it is for the developers of the Coli- 
seum who want to attract larger events. This 
does not benefit the students of IPFW nor the 
community in general, unless one wishes to 
employ a "trickle -down" view of the 



of Fort Wayne, which should focus on building 
a secure and stable infrastructure of business- 
es other than the Coliseum. 

IPFW has once again succumbed to the 
business interests of Fort Wayne, allowing a 
commercial enterprise to be built on univer- 
sity land. 

Our debt is first and foremost to the stu- 
dents, faculty and the community, and a hotel 
on campus would eventually be a superb idea. 
However, such a venture should be univer- 
sity-run, not farmed out in the same manner 
as how the Subway and Pizza Hut now serve 
students' food needs. In short, now is not the 
time. One can only look at the poor attendance 
at the men's basketball games (held at the Coli- 
seum) to realize that expanding too fast is as 
detrimental as being constrained. 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Parking problems plague campus 



■ Congratulations to Judy Tillapaugh on 
the success of the I6th annual Health Fair. 
However, ironically, it was not the safest. 
There are fire lanes near almost every build- 
ing on campus. Their primary function is 
to provide emergency response vehicles and 
personnel access to the buildings in the event 
of an emergency. Here at IPFW it appears the 
funct" 

un-attended vehicles 

did. Some were parked there for over three 

Things are not always black and white 
but In this case It is all one color. It is the 
color of indifference on the part of those w! 
disregard this safety law and on the part of 



r themselves. 
Iv 



care about the safety of others 
a like to make a suggestion 



s temporary 






upposed n 



This problem arises almost every linn 
there is an event held in Walb Union that L 
open the public or when the ballroom is re 
ed out. I am left wondering if this observe 
only policy applies to the speeders and sto 
sign runners as 1 can personally attest to 
observing numerous traffic violations com 
mitted within yards of an officer on duty a 
nothing happens. 

An equally important question is why 



whether public or private. 

If fire lanes are to be 
loading and unloading zones, coordi 
should file a permit with the Police and Safety 
office. However, the Police or Security officers 
must also be required to oversee that these 
permits are followed the same way security 
at any U.S airport loading zone is conducted. 
Vehicles must be attended at all times, four- 
way flashers should be on, and minimal time 
allowed to loading and unloading. 

A former employer of mine that had this 
policy, with 8,000 employees, over three times 
the land space, considerably more building 
square footage, has a similar sized security 
force that is more than capable of handling 



— Matt Demko 



Scheduling classes also causes problems 



Oh the frustration of trying to find a set 
of Fall 2005 classes that fit my morning sched- 
ule! Why is it so difficult? There are too many 



classes ii 



e afternoon, ; 



clat 



ii the 



e time — especially o 



get up to make an early afternoon o 

.lin-i rioiin class, and then home aga 

to get some more sleep. 

Schedule flexibility is 



;t ridiculous, 
tpect to see more morning schedules 
m. to 10 a.m...in 50-minute blocks) for 
classes to accommodate those stu- 
dents who want to get in, get out and get on 









i thousands oi -uiileni'. 



-Kendra Cummings 



Recent African election 
demonstrates no change 



Staff Column 

By Stepen Pepple 

spepple@ipfwcommunicator.o 



istounding string of thew 



the past 



eld true for other r 
gions, particularly Africa — a continent where 
oppression, war and crisis have been uninter- 
rupted by the march of reform elsewhere. 

Even relatively democratic and prosperous 
"" e Tanzania, are the host 






Civil 



snot foreseen it to. 

m is spreading through the Congo, 

t experts suggest, will only become 



horribly v&gt; 

Government-sponsored crimes against 
humanity in Sudan are about reach their second 
year, and while the killing has abated to a small 
extent, the problem of disease and malnutri- 



i the African 
whole has been devastated by 

the AIDS epidemic; the various problems each the world, they have allowed 

nation faces have been compounded by the dis- tion to flourish in African 



stood by. 

While the U.S. and UN 

upported 









Last Thursday, Rob- 
ert Mugabe and his parry 
ZANU-PF, arguably the 
worst regime in Africa, 
won (stole) reelection 
in Zimbabwe, formerly 
Rhodesia. 

Mugabe did so by 

that have kept him in 
power for the past 25 

Yet, Mugabe v 



The contagion of political 
freedom has not touched 
the African continent, in 
part because the west has 
not foreseen it to. 






need for democratic and 
nationalistic self-determi- 
nation in Zimbabwe and 
other African nations, but 
as long a people feel help- 
less and alone, as long as 
the possibilities of protest 
and political action are 
not palpable, change will 
probably not happen. 



In r. 



,he 



need only offer people the very food, clothes 
and guns he has absconded through taxes and 
bad policy over the years, and they have no 
choice but to vote for him. 

When Zimbabweans went to the polls last 
week, they were watched by Zanu-PF officials 
and they knew if they did not vote Mugabe, they 



confident for his re- 
election, he selectively allowed the press to sur- 
vey the election. 

This is poignant because Mugabe's presi- 
dency has been marked by efforts to remove and 
even kill journalists. 

There exists a popular opposition parry in 
Zimbabwe, though — the Movement for Demo- 
cratic Change (MDC)— and no one doubts that 
if a free election where held in the country, MDC way, which it s 
would win. as brutal will take over tne nation. 

However, the party has been demoralized In a place like Zimbabwe, for people who 

by years of oppression. have nothing, it does not take much to tip the 

As one of the few public figures openly scale in favorof political action, 
critical of Mugabe's government, Archbishop People who have nothing to lose but their 

Pius Ncube, says, "No one in Zimbabwe is will- lives must only be provided a chance to gain ev- 
sacrifice their life. People just pray that erythingwith those lives. 



Mugabe 

The contagion of political freedom has not 
I touched the African continent, in part because 



Sadly, however, this will not happen 
the possibilities of change, like the South 
can example, are made viable. 



Afri- 



Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect the views of IPFW, its employees or its student body. A column is solely 
the opinion of its author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses. Letters to the Editor must be signed, dated and accompanied by a current address, telephone number and class standing/major or 
title (if applicable). Letters not meeting these requirements will not be considered for publication. All submissions made via email will be verified by telephone or in person. Ad- 
dresses and telephone numbers will not be published. 

Submissions must be typed, and no more than 700 words. The editorial board of The Communicator reserved the right to edit all submissions for length, grammar, style, and 
clarity. Letters deemed potentially libelous by the editorial board will not be published under any circumstances. 



The saga continues: why rap sucks. Part II 

As The World Turns 



On sensationalism 



For the Write Reason 



Puffy really blew up in the national 
consciousness in the wake of the Notorious 
B.I.G '^shooting death back in 1997. 

e this tragedy, Puffy 



never really goes away And, indeed, it sure 
felt like they never did. For a good two to 
three solid years. Puffy and Mase bounced 
around MTV, radio, Muzak and who knows 
what else, selling their brand of pop/rap to 
anyone who was willing to listen. 

It wasn't just that they couldn't rap to 
save their lives. It wasn't just that the vid- 
eos were the worst form of self-promotion 
seen since the Third Reich. And they were, 
let's be honest. Everything they did in the 
videos was designed 



MTV 

Everywhere we went we were inun- 
dated with Puffy crying his eyes out. "Oh, 1 
lost my best friend. We were so tight. I used 
to feed him ham sandwiches during walks 
at the park." And so on and so on. 

The worst thing about this marketing 
ploy was simply listening to Puffy rap on 
the track. I take that back. The absolute 
worst was watching him rap in the video. 
It was, in short, nauseating. Here's Puffy, a 
pop/rap producer, sending shout-outs to 
his dead homie, acting like an R&amp;B jack- 
wag, looking like he wants to start crooning 
something to someone. 

Besides, Puffy can't rap. Everyone 
knows this. Everyone knew this at the time. 
Unfortunately, he must have mistaken the 
tears of pain we cried when hearing his 
dull voice for tears of real emotion. Yes, I'm 
emotional. Please stop rapping. 

Nope, not so much. After this song, 
Puffy proceeded to go out and find the 
blandest, most boring voice imaginable to 
help him blow the spot up. Anybody ever 
heard of Mase? Anybody ever heard of a 
sleeping pill? 

Sweet Lord in heaven. Watching these 
two was like a nightmare you have that 



1 outfits that looked straight out of 
Ringling Brothers Circus. Even now, the 
images make me wince and reach for the 



Everywhere we went we 
were inundated with Puffy 
crying his eyes out. "Oh, 
I lost my best friend. We 
were so tight. I used to 
feed him ham sandwiches 
during walks at the park." 



ulcer medication. 

These were all bad. But, and let's 
honest here, Puffy simply brought self-pro- 






t had 



never been there before. Plenty of rappers 
went around with trunks of braggadocio, 
really to tell you quick what they were all 
about. No, it wasn't just this that set rap on 
a downward slide. It was the blatant rip off 
of pop, and the infusion of it into rap, that 
really clinched it. 

For those of you who can remember 
back that far, 1997 brought us the Backstreet 
Boys. I don't even want to talk about them 
(my therapist says I should avoid stress) but 



take a look at what kid of music they had. It 
was all synth-oriented, saccharine-sweet, 
bubblegum music. There was no edge to ii. 
It was safe and friendly, perfectly designed 
for mass-market consumption. This was, 
of course, echoed in Britney Spears's first 
album, also debuting around this time. 

What Puffy did, from a marketing 
standpoint, was genius. He essentially took 
shitty boy-band music, infused it with a 
few hip-hop beats, and— voila — you've got 
Puffy and Mase. There was nothing even 
remotely "street" about it. He capitalized on 
the music frenzy that was sweeping the 15- 
and-under market and essentially decided 
to market his music directly at this group. 
Like the Backstreet Boys? Buy Puffy! 

He sucked the street right out of rap. 
But, more than that, he made it safe for mil- 
lions of white parents to let a black musician 
into their house. "Let's buy Puff Daddy, he's 
safe. We'll let Johnny and Jane put his post- 
ers up on their wall, no fear." Puff Daddy 
became the modern-day house Negro for 
the late '90s. Parents didn't have to worry 
about their kids listening to him because he 
was no threat to them or anybody. He stood 
for nothing but corporate marketing. There 
was nothing even remotely dangerous or 
threatening about him. 

Rap is not safe. Rap is not cookie-cut- 
ter. Rap. in its best and most proud form, 
stands for beating the system at its own 
game. It is a proud critique of oppression 
and injustice, from a distinct and original 



from an economic or racial level, It' 
corporate; it's street. Puffy helped rap get 
hijacked by suits and ties, and facilitated 



boardroom. 

We all c 
thanks. Ornc 



! him a great big debt of 



Food fights signal of the dearth of free speech 



media conducted a "death 
watch" on two fronts. On the 
heels of the tragic but inevitable 



amongst themselves about how 
to handle his condition. Even 
if there had been, he was aware 
enough to be granted an opinion 
of his own. We will never know 
what Terri Schiavo wanted, what 
she would've chosen if she had 



and heart failure as well as high would e 



factor between the two crises ex- 
ists in the difference between the 
public and the private spheres. 



what happened in the first place, 
15 years ago when she collapsed 
at her home from what doctors 
believe to be some kind of potas- 
sium issue. The things we will 



pope knew when he accepted 

the papacy that his life would be 
of public interest from that point 

He was a celebrity nf sorts 
and, while waiting for someone 
to die is always uncomfortable 
for me, the media coverage did 



probably almost until the very 



Staff Column 



According to the Associated Press, could have as easily been a gun, a knife o 

on Thursday March 31 former presidential aboxcutter. 

candidate Pat Buchanan ended a speech 1 guess with all the security issue; 

early at Western Michigan University after food is just an easier weapon to smuggl 

e mi'inhiT liirew salad dressing into a pat ked auditorium. 



alio 



rurrfj^ 
The cranky o 



e lobbed the liquid at him. ercising the rights granted to them by the 

Now, even as I am not even the slight- First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, 

it bit of afan of Buchanan, the first thought They v. 
i my head was, what will i 



Certainly being from Indiana, and i 
atively close to Richmond, someone n 
choose to lump anyone here at IPFW ii 
the same category they put those two s 

The way in which both hecklers ds 

r noteworthy. 



e only expressing their o 



Good '01 Indiana, another 
noted conservative, William 
Kristol, was hit in the face 
by a pie during an appear- 
,t Earlham College in 



And make no mistake, 

throwing pie into 
someone's face, or salad 
dressing in his hair, is an 
act of physical violence. 



and opinions. 

They do ha\ 
that right, whethi 
we agree with whi 
they are saying &lt; 

For 



i other notable speak- 
ers will commit to a speaking engagement 
here in Indiana or Michigan? 

What a huge loss that would be for ev- 
eryone involved. The speaker would always 









Richmond. 






Probably r 

either Buchanan or Kristol's ultra conser- 
vative views, but is a possible fine and jail 
sentence worth making the point? 

I just am not personally a fan of physi- 



i the face shortly after 



lence (both Kristol 

and Buchanan left 

food be- 

scheduled conclusion of the event) 



s offered by both the 



ofvi 

What actually alarms me most, 
the outbursts from the students, bi 
fact that both incidents occurred i 
heart of the Midwest and on college 

My immediate concern is som&gt; 



bodily harm may come from food here, and 
students would miss out on valuable learn- 
ing opportunities. 

The reason colleges are so great is 
because they periodically offer many valu- 
able opportunities to expand your hori- 
zons with events featuring speakers from 
all over the country. 

That Is how students equate what 
they learn on campus to applicability in 
the real world — from hearing from people 
in the real world. Those real world peopl 









.■ Mid 



&gt;t after the last week. 
What a shame that we, here at colleg- 
es in the heartland, must implement food 
security checkpoints before opening the 



Different ages cause no trouble in dating 



Staff Column 



Honestly, does age have anything t 






do with anything? If two people are happy gaged 
together, why should it matter if 
nificantly older than the other? 

It may be true that people who are 
close to the same age may have more things 
in common with each other than people 
who are of vastly different ages — or even of 
different generations. But why do so many 
people look down on couples who are far 



her manager and 
m home to pay for 
albums. They married 



on Earth. His eyes are 
e gives me his undivid- 
tever experienced any- 

children together. But for several thing like it before. 

, they kept their relationship a secret, The guys I have gone out with previ- 

I of the public's reaction to their age ousl\ wre always looking around at othei 
girls, or flirting with waitresses, and what- 

Tony Randall (1920-2004), famous for not. But he focuses intently 

ale as Felix Unger, in TV's version of treats mi 
The Odd Couple," was 50 years older than develop 



(27) s 

other's company, and Kutcher has basically 
become part of Moore's family. He has even 
become known as MOD (My Other Dad) to 
Moore's three daughters, Rumer (16), Scout 
(13) and Tailulah (11). Even Moore's ex- 
husband Bruce Willis seems to like Ashton 
and considers him a friend, and Star Maga- 



lady. Whether this will ever 
) more than a friendship is im- 
his second wife, Heather Harlan. After 54 possible to say, but I would definitely be 
years of happy marriage to Florence Gibbs open to it if that were an option, 
(who died in 1992 after a long illness), Ran- I have also found that several of my 

dall married the young actress after meet- other friends are also quite a bit older than 
ing her while she interned at the National I am. One female friend is about 50, has 
Actors Theatre. Although he apparently had five kids and lives on a farm. She and I have 
about being married to some- very different views on a lot of things, but 
much younger than he was, he and we can talk about anything under the 



his young t 






a quotes o 






d up giving away the bride, 
being the best man — or both!" 

True, there are people out there like 
Anna Nicole Smith, who may take advan- 
tage of older people for money. But not ev- 
eryone is like that. 

Then you've got people like Celine 
Dion and husband Rene Angelil, who've 
been together happily for many years; An- 
gelil is 26 years her senior. They met when 
Dion was only 12-years-old, when she au- 
ditioned with him in his Montreal office. 
When Dion sang for him, he actually cried. 



wife both 
became first-time parents to 
Julia Laurette Randall in 1997 
and had their second child, 
Jefferson Salvini Randall, in 
1998. The Randalls were mar- 
ried until his death in 2004. 

1 can say that I am 32, and 
have recently become pretty 

good friends with a man in his _ = ___^^__^ = ^^ i ^ = ^ i=iiiii "* c ai 
earl) fifties, whom I have start- ~ same- 

ed dating. do. 

Admittedly, we do get a lot of dirty My job and school give n 

looks from less open-minded people. But ponunitiestomeetpeoplemyo- 






will 



His eyes are always on be [reated 

me, and he gives me his complete 

undivided attention. .HaifS § 

I've never experienced accepts me 

, . am. She do. 

anything like it before. try to chang* 



haps the most tragic difference 
between the two stories is that 
Schiavo did not spend 84 years 
providing inspiration to a faith in 
a job she truly enjoyed and that 
brought her personal satisfac- 

Themedia had little archive 
footage to show us of Schiavo, 
compared to the resources avail- 
able to supplement the pope 
broadcasts. Therefore, we found 
ourselves face-to-face with the 
same images of Schiavo — a pho- 
tograph of her at 25 and then 
some video footage of her later, 
incapacitated and at (he mercy 
of her alleged loved ones. 

The pope's situation \ 



What Is being called the 
"Schiavo case" has the potential 
to alter the American right-to-die 
legislative landscape, and I don't 
dispute that this event merits 
news coverage. 

However, when that cov- 
erage ceases to be tasteful and, 
more importantly, respectful and 
compassionate, 1 begin to ques- 



all worked up over Schiavo. Is; 
crowds of people openly sobbing 
at protests outside the hospice 
facility where she spent her final 

I hesitate to slam the me- 
dia, especially here in one of Its 
agents, but the extensive of cov- 
erage of Schiavo's very personal 



express an interest in whether 
or not a brain-damaged woman 
from Florida lives or dies, would 
the coverage have continued 
with such fervor? We can and 



which every new 

supply-demand I 



Website from the 
right tracks the left 



From the Wire 

By Ben Duffy 



Daily Collegian (U. Massachusetts-Amherst) 



of Mr. Horowitz, he was open to 
this criticism, and subsequent- 
ly revised his website into five 
more specific categories. 



when he stumbled across Da- 
vid Horowitz's new supersite, 

www.discoverthenetwork.org. 



When Horowitz refers 
to the Left as a "network," he's 
talking about the web of money 
trails, the intertwined personal 
histories, the associations be- 
tween individuals and groups, 
the front organizations, and 
the many hidden connections 
that form the well-oiled politi- 
cal machine. Horowitz recendy 
unveiled his masterpiece, a 
comprehensive expose of the 



caused a lot of headaches for 
Horowitz. Detractors were in- 
censed that he had created such 



itrage of RogierVan Bekel, 
who couldn't believe that Bruce 
Springsteen would be lumped 
together with Abu Musab al- 
Zarqawi. What did the two have 
in common? 

Was Horowitz suggest- 
ing that Springsteen, a self-de- 
scribed "progressive," was cut 

ist thugs? Could you even call 



ingly aligned themselves with 
Muslim extremists. Perhaps 
Bruce Springsteen isn't a good 
example of this, but I could 

think ui plenty whoa 



2004. Moore wrote in his blog, 
"The Iraqis who have risen up 
against the occupation are not 
'insurgents' or 'terrorists' or 
"The Enemy.' They are the rev- 
olution, the Minutemen, and 
their numbers will grow — and 
they will win." 



those who used 
violence and threats of violence 
to dissuade voters from casting 
their ballots? The same enemy 
that tries to keep girls out of 
school, for fear that they might 
learn to read? That shoots elec- 
tion workers? That proclaims 
that democracy is "the worst 
form of government" because it 
entails the right to choose one's 
religion? That is composed of 
Ba'athists and al Qaida mem- 
bers? Is this the "revolution" he 
was talking about? Well, it's nice 
to hear Moore finally admit 
whose side he's on. 

Van Bekel is right to ask 
what "progressives" are doing 
on the same page as radical 
jihadists. But that's not David 
s question tc 



Well, Mr. Van Bekel, I've 
been wondering the same thing 
myself. How did we end up in 
the peculiar situation we are in 
today, in which the agendas, in- 



benefit of Mr. Van 
Bekel, Springsteen does not 
belong in the same category as 
al-Zarqawi. And to the benefit 



of Muslims and 
the interests of the socialists 
coincide in the war against the . 
crusaders." That videotape ran 
on al-Jazeera, on Feb. 12, 2003. 
just before the Iraq war began. 
Osama must be a smart man, 
because he knows who his allies 
are in this country. They make 
strange bedfellows, but they are 
bedfellows nonetheless. 



TheCommi.'nk .\ti.)K 



Arts 



Performance • Music • Fine Arts 



Wednesday. April 6. 2005 




Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



r XJnitedK&gt; 

Art and Education 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



Join our warehouse team in a fun, friendly environment. 

■ Work part-time now/full-time in the summer. 

■ Duties include order fining, i„Mes _ „«„»«»„»«, ?&lt;»»&gt; 

■ Starting at $7.50/hour. 

United Art and Education • Monday ■ Friday 9am-5pm • 4413 Airport Expressway 



PLEASE RECYCLE 
THIS NEWSPAPER 



« 



Grand Re-Opening! 

IU Credit Union is now re-open 
at Kettler Hall. 

Come help us celebrate 
Friday, April 8th with refreshments! 

Thank you for your patience. 



IU Credit Union 

www.iucu.org 



HOURS: 

Mon • Wed &amp; Frl: 9 a 

Thurs: 9 a.m. - 



All IPFW students, faculty and staff are 
eligible to join the III Credit Union! 



Teller/Member Services: 
Kettler Hall #196F 
2101 E Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

(960) 481-6263 

Loan/Adminislralivet 
walb Student Union #12S 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 
(960) 481.6973 



Reverence seen 
in media coverage 



B3 



State of the Arts 

By Kelly Lynch 
klynch@jpfwcommunicator.org 



on the media for having nothing 
better to do than cover sleaze 
and slime and silly stuff. 

So, this week they threw 
religion at me and have repent- 
ed from their sins. 

Nevertheless, the media 
has made a frenzy out of an 

pered by something that 



the bad, so even if you're no 
all about the Lord, it has to bi 
something of interest to you. 

Then again, George Busl 
says he's a Jesus freak, but ; 
butcher can just as easily say hi 






We're seeing the world 
come together and 
if s being covered 

of holiness extensively by cameras 
things are'to ana * reporters standing 

be revered. in the thkk Of it. 



ocean of journalism, politics, Their 
partisanship, and favoritism 
and bias, something like reli- 
gion has slowly washed ashore. 
Newscasters and corn- 
have taken per- of enlight 
ces in their report- mational resources are being 
i unconsciously properly utilized and Michael 
' a Stewart 



posted 



Aljezeera network i 
puppet." 



'Mi.illuu 



describing their faith, whether Jackson 



Lutheran, Catholic, i 



l-de- 

Before his death, 
channels streamed in 
prayer services and m 
from around the world as 
as compassionate, informative forms 
words from priests and rabbis Hopefully, 

and clerics alike. ing the cuirem 



dead air thai does what it can 

inform us, but not try and 

difference on what it in- 



i, the pope v&gt; 



i n'pork'il 1(H) C.ilhulk world will ( uiHinuc in 
terest, especially con- 
dinary man who accomplished sideringthenewchangestaking 
many incredible things, but ft- place in the world of religion. 
nally there is substance to back Hopefully people who could 
up facts. care less will open their minds 

a little and use the deceased 
leader as inspiration on how to 
simply be a good human being, 



scoured the globe for informa- 
tion on who the man was, ev- 
eryone from Henry Kissinger to 



come together and it's being 

covered extensively by cameras 

and reporters standing in the of that with MJ 



And hopefully 
t wayward priests touch- 
ing little buys. We have enough 



Hope a reality for those 'Born Into Brothels 



does a fair amount of work to get anything 
that the children could use to better them- 
selves, but just as often the futility of their lot 
is glaring. 



(U-VVtRE) Chicago - Pretty much the 
tide says it all in that whatever you can imag- 
ine as .1 result basically shows up on screen. 
Co-director Zana Hriski actually insinuated 
herself into the red light district of Calcutta 
India in order to glean knowledge about t 









dismissed — there i 
back alleys and brothels that is distinct from 
the country's mainstream society, and the 
children actually impress with the manner 
in which they cope and survive with a bleak 

Ms. Briski quickly focused her attention 
on the forgotten urchins-ranging in age in 
the six to ten year old range — and uses pho- 
tography, first to connect with the youths, 
then to draw out unknown or undiscovered 
passions ami taleni She hcioniis their tu- 
tor, mentor, and in the end their only hope 



that this was going to harbor some demoral- 
izing elements, the biggest tragedy is the big- 
gest surprise; — these are kids 
and ambition, and ilicir |ili[ 
dramatic because of these tt 

Many of the kids exhibit a taleni with 
the camera, and even those who do not have 
a blatant skill are able to produce compelling 
images because ol their innate familiarity 



family will lose an income. 

Less clear is something that is not clear- 
ly addressed, and that is the fate of the young 
boys. While the girls appear to be consigned 
to a life as prostitutes the young hoys have 
a future in limbo, and if thev cannot gel to 
a school and a chance ai an education then 
what lies ahead is not clear. 

But suffice that it is 



obvious, and therefore blunted slightly. 

The real revelation is the personalities 
of the kids, who manage to have upbeat atd- 
tudes and desires for a better life and deliver 
them with a genuine enthusiasm of youth. 



le brightest facet of the n 






When they begin to see what they are 
able to produce these children become trans- 
formed. Interviews with each of them shows 
that there is some deep wisdom harbored in 
their young souls, and all profess to wanting 
a better life apart from the brothel neigbbor- 

The problem they face is the en- 




AMUSEMENT:Ross Kaufmann, creative consultant for the 'Born Into 
Brothels,'ww turns the camera towards himself and onlooking chil- 
dren, the subject of the film. 



A&amp;E Writers Wanted. 

The Arts and Entertainment department of the Communicator is looking for 

motivated writers to cover local arts events. No experience necessary. 

To apply, fill out an application in Walb Union, Suite 215, or email 

arts@ipfwcommunicator.org. 




YOU'VE 

NEVER LIVED 

LIKE THIS 





&gt; 



&gt;FW Student Housing 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

4110 Crescent Avenue • Fort Wayne, IN 4681 5 
www.IPFWstudenthousing.com 

Professionally managed by American Campus Communities 



Enjoy writing? 

Interested in 

a career in journalism? 

Enjoy taking and editing 
photographs? 

Maybe you just want 
to have a voice in your 
campus newspaper... 



NOW IS YOUR CHANCE. 

Every position on the editorial board 

of The Communicator is available at 

the end of the term. 



The board of directors of Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers is 
currently taking applications for the positions of: 

EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 

and 

ADVERTISING MANAGER 



If you are interested in the possibility of defining the voice of 

IPFW's only student publication, 

send a letter of interest and your resume to: 

THE COMMUNICATOR 

ATTN: RICHARD PAPA2AN 

PRESIDENT, BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

WALB UNION, STE 21 5 

2101 COLISEUM BLVD. 

FORT WAYNE, IN 46805-1445 



APPLICATIONS DUE BY APRIL 20 



New study: 

Liberal 

professors 

advance 

faster than 

conservatives 

By Anthony Serrano 

(Boston University) 



HJ-WIRD AUSTIN. Texas -Con- 
servative professors may have a 
harder lime advancing in aca- 
demia. according io a report re- 
leased this week by The Forum, 
a political research Journal. 



Now, 

all your incoming 
calls can be free. 



jobs at high-quality schools 

professors in higher education 

I iv I.itkc numbers. 

Ideology ranks second 

determining advancement, ac- 
cording lo the report. Women 
and practicing Christians were 
also named among groups dis- 
irimirniled against. 

Susan Marshall, a Univer- 
sity ofTcxas sociology profes 
1 es a class on resea 
)gy, said there w 
c flaws in rhe study's 
methodology which would 
influence the report's conclu- 



m distr inimaie? Where do they 
jjL't this information?" 

As a government profes- 
sor who started teaching at 
Smith College in 1956, Stanley 
Rothman. professor emeritus at 
Smith and co-author of the re- 
port, said it wasn't hard to learn 
other professors' ideologies. 

These questions are often 
part of a job interview, he said, 
and after a few years working 
in an academic department, 
most people know how oth- 
ers in their department lean. 
The report also cited a shift in 
professors' political leanings by 
comparing a 19B4 survey by the 
Carnegie Foundation for the 
Advancement of Teaching to 
the 1999 North American Aca- 
(li mics SitidySurvey. 

In 1984, 39 percent of pro- 
fessors identified themselves 
as liberal, while 34 percent said 
they were conservative. In 1999 
these numbers changed to 72 
percent liberal and 15 percent 
conservative. But Marshall said 
these numbers didn't indicate 
as dramatic a shift as it would 
first appear. 



lican Party," she said. "It r 

not be that conservatives have 
been chased out of academia, 
it that as the Republican Party 



having 



The survey also asked 
professors where they stood 
on controversial topics such as 
abortion and gay rights. The re- 
sponse of faculty members to 
those questions -- 84 percent 
pro-choice and 67 percent in 
favor of gay rights • - indicated a 
real change "in the whole social 
character of on 
Rothman said. 

Marshall i 
liberal attitude about different 
perspectives was pan of the job. 
"We don't chase conservatives 
out of sociology. We just don't 
have any." she said. "That's just 
what studying people does. It 



loiu's liberalism." 

As a professor, Rothman 
said he occasionally saw col- 
leagues discriminated against 
for their political beliefs and 
that he was discriminated 
against on one occasion. But he 
added that much of his career 
took place before the liberal 
shin on ("liege campuses. 

"1 think of myself as mid- 
dle-of-the-road." Rothman 
said. Rothman said the report. 



Slates and Canada that he and 
his co-authors had been con- 
ducting. 

The study was co-au- 
thored by S. Robert Lichter, 



president of ihe 



for 



Media and Public Affairs, &lt; 
search group affiliated with 
George Mason University and 
supported by conservative 
foundations according to the 
Chronicle of Higher Education 




L &lt;Even the 5 calls 
from your girlfriend 
In the last 20 minutes.) 




NOW, 

when people are wasting your time, they're not wasting your money. 



Unlimited CALL ME Minutes i 



• Sen, I 
a month I 
FREE Incorm 




* 




US. Cellular 

We connect with yow. 



olBiMCpMiMniniKM 






The Communicator 



Sports 



Mastodons win three of five 

■ Baseball team wins games against Dayton, Wright State and Grace College in first home game stretch of the year 




Five home games made up last weeks basehall m heilule 
with tht- squad going I 2 with wins neer Dayton, Wright Mate 
and Grace College !')»*■ Mastodons ilnippi il iwo sanies tt. 
Vim n j;smwn State. 

The home season began on lUesday as eoaeh Billy t.ernon 
,uul his team [llaved host to the Dayton livers I he Myers are 
coached by Tony Vittorio. the Kirmer II'IAV iiiisebalUuath. I he 
•.liefest s,iw a see saw battle that included „'l rims and ;tl hits. 
Hill in the end, it was the Mastodons wli.i walked away 11-10 
winners on a walk oil ll\ ball hy lylet lowler. 

Pitcher Frit Lambert gavr up the lirst two runs of the 
^atne in Hie second inmng, giving ii|i solo hmnenins to William 
lieiiint and Hrvan ( handlei nt the I hers /at h Walton answered 
in the hottom hall ol tin- inning with a hoineriin of his own, a 



runs in give the Mastodons tin- le.id in the contest. It was not 
a^ain until ihe eighth inning that I layion took ihe lead hack. 
The contest weni into the ninth inning tied at 10. 

After Dayton failed to score in the top half of the inning, 



► WIN THREE: Page B3 



Gernonwins 100th 



Baseball 
Gemon won his 100th game than three 
atlPFWlastweekintheteanVs The season 
victory over Wright State. 

Gemon began his 
it IPFW in August ol 1 



coaching the Mastodons 
(lemon struggled to a 12-33 
winning mori 

raiglu games 



In I 



i loll •■ 



helm, he led tl 






By Chad Ryan/ eryan@ipfwcc 

r Dustin Fremion doubles in the ninth inning against Dayton. 
I the winning run on a Tyler Fowler sacrifice in the ninth inning. 



coach at Indiana Un 
where he worked unc 
Morgan. Morgan is 
the top twenty win 
coaches active in Dh 
baseball. 

While Gernon 

and won a BigTencon 
title. Gernon also spent r 

under Tony Vittorio. Gernon 



included wins over N 
Con and Horizon con 

ence opponents Valpara 
l Imago Mate, Western lllh 
and Wright State. 

"I'd say in general, w 
a very good hall club. 



4/6-4/12 ► 



Wed. 6 ■ UW Milwaukee (DH), 

Thur. 7 ■ Chicago State, 
3:00 PM 

Mon. 11 ■ Taylor, 

3:00 PM 

Tues. 12 ■ a Dayton, 



Sat 9 ■lUPUI(DH), 
„0PM 

Sun. 10 ■ «Bowtre|Green(DH), 

TtieS. 12 ■Ball State (DH), 
2:00 PM 

Thurs. 7 ■ Toledo. 

1:00 PM 

Sun. 10 ■ ©Eastern Illinois, 
10:00 AM 



Fri.8 
Sat.9 



Mon- 
Tues. 
11-12 

C 



Softball splits games 
against Oakland 

■ Softball wins first of double header against Grizzlies. The split brings 
the Mastodons to a record of 5-18 

Bv Dan Vance Green ' the r ' 8ht fie,der ' would knock in a mn c 

a single. 

"I think the main goal was in Ir\ .mil keep 
our intensity up," said Reachy of the team's 
between game goal. " I here is usually at leasi one 
game. The main goal was to keep our intensity 



Sat 9 ■ ffl Michigan Stale 



Always 
stay until 
the ninth 



On Thursday, the Miltball team opened their 
2005 home schedule in a double header against 
Oakland. The Mid-Continent conference foes the ■ 
split their games with the Mastodons. Oakl 

IPFW won game one 6-2 and lost in the 
second game 5-3. duct 



pitcher Beth Harmon pitched 
first game, surrendering both of the 
n- n Ink striking on i i wo batters. 



iust kind ol [i |ii_'i.l i 






jsphei 



1 good a leelmg," 
said designated player 
Jenna Beachy of being at 
home for the first time 
this year. 

Both teams got 
things rolling in the lirst 
inning with the Grizzlies 
striking first. In the bot- 
tom half of the first, 
senior Tierni Green led 
off with a double and 

groundnut by sophomore 



struggled in the second 



first game, w&lt; 

of problems coming o 



Season Statistical Leaders 


PLAYER 


AVG. 


HITS 


RBI 


SLG % 


Jenna Beachy 
Tierni Green 
Natalie Clark 
Kari Sutler 
Kacie Stone 
PLAYER 


.309 
.303 
.302 
.270 
.267 
ERA 


21 
20 
16 

17 
12 

W-l 


12 
1 
5 
8 
6 
BB 


426 
.348 
.302 
.333 

.311 
SO 


Jenna Connelly 
Beth Harmon 

K.irly ElliOt 
Natalie Clark 

PLAYER 


5.85 

7.54 
17.36 
27.00 

FLO % 


2-10 
3-6 
0-1 
0-1 

C 


33 
32 
5 
3 

PO 


26 
3 

E 


Heather DeVore 
Angela Pasquali 
Jenna Beachy 


1.000 
1.000 
.978 


139 
5 
45 


135 
5 
39 





1 



I in the first game getting knock, and theOU lead was 5-1. 
the ball on the bat early," noted Beachy. IPFW got one in the fifth and the 

The game remained deadlocked until the both off the bat of Clark, but it wasn't enough 
fourth when the Mastodons rallied to score ~ 
runs off Oakland pitcher Nicole Marzano. 

In the fourth, Ty Lambert started the s 
ing with an RBI single. 

Catcher Kacie Stone hit next in the order while senior captain Gi 
and knocked in iwo rims with a single of her own The nest games lor ihe leam will be on Sat- 

to but the Mastodons up 4-1. To wrap up die urday.AprilUasthev host a double header against 
scoring, Stone would score on a wild pilch and the IUPUI Jaguars. 




IPFW | 

of the third, Green 
singled and stole sec- 



home, the Mastodons climbed 
back to a 4-2 lead in the bottom 
of the fourth. 
Still, Daytoi 



personally pacing back and forth 
due to all the drama unraveling 
on the field. If there was one thing 
that I learned a' 
ball that day, it was that you just 
taut leave a game early. 

Yet again the Mastodons 
fought back to a tie game. Fans 
from both sides were pacing 
around the outside of the field. It 
was like a heavyweight fight that 
had each fighter trading rounds. 
Obviously, the stands were still 
full late into the game. The Flyers 



',rv-: .,-;■■ 



ESS 



Tennis squads battle Vikings 



By Anthony Maurer 



IPFW splits weekend 
conference action 



Courtesy 
IPFW Sports Information $h rTSil^ t 

ryovKh«ip(w.edu Zbyszewski. took 79 si 



and Corey Kloos (16 kills) thai 
kept IPFW from handing LUC 
s first MIVA loss of the year. 




Serdar Sikca was the only other 
Mastodon in double-figures 
with 14 kills. 

In Saturday's match, it 
took IPFW only an hour and 
fifteen minutes to dispatch of 
Clarke College. 

IPFW won by the scores 
of 30-23, 30-25 and 30-21. 
Zbyszewski registered his s 



block .mil I'nlir bint 1. as- 

With the wcekeii. 
lI'IVV's record stands ; 
6-6 in the MIVA. 



Fife hires assistant coach 



i Caronlhers, a sophomore guard, 
liked I He's approach and said questions ranged 
from family life to how many championships 



Former Oakland lluiveisiiv iMii h.i assisiam 
head Luai.h It'll I ungate has been named associate 
head coach of (he ll'IW mens basketball team.'. 

Tungale is die first assistant named to new 
head coach Dane Fife's staff. 

"Jeff was an easy decision I'm me." Fife said 
"lie is someone thai I had to haw." 

Tlmgale, an IH!W Uiklaud University gradm 
ate. has l-l years of coat limgesperienic Mubt'gaii 
his coaching career as an assistant ai Uarksiun 
High School in Michigan. 

Clatkston is the saint' high school thai Dane 
life attended and where life's father, Dan, is 
athletic director and hnvs basketball coach Fife 
a ball-boy when fttngate played high school 



lege game, becoming the 

top assistant at Rochester 
College (Mich.) under Gary 

was there for 
i and helped 
lead the Division II USCAA 
(United States Collegiate 

Alhletii Association) team to 

ings. Pleasant has coached 



teach player has 



&gt; what goals 



I student-athlete and in what I hi- next III years 
[holds for each. 

"He asked what do I expect from him. which 
I thought was kind of neat,"' ( armuhers said. "It 
was like 'I give, you give.' It kind of surprised 



and Fife to establish a relationship. 

The sophomore said the team has only mt 
with life a few times since be was appoint* d a 




When asked. Hawkins agreed tit- could see 
himself as a "life type of player." At Indiana 
University from I'J'IIK'OO.', kite was known for 
his hard-nosed and griuv '-tvle oT play, something 
Hawkins has fuelled al his tirst two years on the 
playing floor. 

Fife said plaversare Idling three nines a week 
starling al i&gt; a.m. I le added Hi- mil mie individual 
workouts with ihree or four players at a time will 

IPFW may look to big men, JUCOs 



Willi the loss ot senior center David Simon, 

leading scorer and rebound er over the 

IPFW may look to replace the 



ij-plu- 






ITO'l. 19M7, 21104, 



10 coach," Dave Vhniidl. UM.AA t.oriuuissiniier. 

Tungatc was named assistant coach at 

Lincoln Memorial University in l'l'IH but spent 
just a year al the position ln-lorc taking over head 

coaching duties. 

He led the team io its second ever posi -sea- 
son tournament in I'l'l'i sinee joining die Division 

11 ranks He compiled a hit- 74 ret ord overall in five 
years, int Riding a I 1 )- III campaign in 2002, before 
joining Oakland as an assistant in 2004. 

Oakland won the Horizon League's con- 
ference tournament and earned the right to 
compete in the play-in game of the 2005 NCAA 
Tournament. 

The team defeated Alabama A&amp;M in that 
i;ame and earned a berth nun die held of 64 as a 
No. 16 seed. 

Oakland was routed by eventual national 
champion North ( arolina in the first round on 



hopeful': 

I hough I ife declined 
recruits to replace Simon, be said be believes 
men Charles Campbell (6-foot- 10) and Zcljko 
ic (6-foot-9), while young, can contribute 

"We a 



we have " 








Simon i 


listed by IPFW at 6 






measured at (S-foot-8 at an NBA pre 


-draft 




last May. He 


weighs near 260 pounds. Q 




Under is the 


ext tallest plaver on I 






at6-foot-7. 








DJ. Posley, a tJ-foot-2 point 








ossmoor High School 


in ( hicagu. 


is die only re 


emit signed to play a 


IPFW 


next 



t and his scholarship." 
Fife said he will meet with Posley m\i\ his 
parents later this spring anil .nil ici pales the guard 



According to stout. i urn, ll'IW offered a 
si liolaisliip to Hranilon Mayse, a ti-looi-7 power 
forward from Cenu-iullc High School m Indiana. 
' Mayse called him and said hehaddecid- 



this weekend (April 9-101. 



Fife is already establishing a rapport with 
flis player-, giving ihree page t|uesinmnaires and 
) become more personal- 



it of them," 
IU and Michigan 
e guy that can't do 



nl die program and what iv 
Fife said. "We want lo ( 
State standards there is. i 
this. It's just about the wi 
done at other programs." 

life believes II'FW lias a chance to be S 



ed to play for Saint Joseph's College ii 
Indiana. He declined further comment. 

The Communicator has learned from a 
si-perak- source Frit (..iff. a senior al Concord 
High s, liool in I Ikhan. ! m liana may be a recruit. 

Gaff, a 6-foot-9 power forward, is listed as 
Ihe 31" prospect on Indiana Basketball News' 
website 1Ui\ is the self- proclaimed number one 
source tor recruiting informal in Indiana. 

The websiie savs Calf is siill growing ami 
could reach seven feel tall he-lore he is finished. At 
1H0 pounds, (.all will need in fill out. but has the 
frame to do so. 

His strengths include shot blinking, scor- 
ing near the flasket anil the ability In tluidly run 
the floor The websiie says he is a great Inniui 
College candidate for physical maturity and skill 
refinement." 



Golfers place 19th at Indiana University 



Courtesy 
IPFW Sports Information 

ryovidiOlpfw.edu - 



behind Ueiniei with . 



Weimcr led the Dons with 
Bloomington, IN - The IPFW women's a 9I and finished Ihe invi- 

leam traveled to Indiana University to par- tational with a 180. Junior 
ticipate In the IU Invitational this pasi 'Saturday Kelly Wood was in second 



and Sunday. After 

'Dons finished in 19th pi; 

score of 762. Grand Valley Stale 



of competition the lor round 



for the 'Dons with a 92. She- 
finished the invitational 
with a 197. Wood finished 
tied with fellow teammate 
Nicolle Geyer in 109th 



S3 



iseball games I had ever seen, at any level. 

Ihe ninth inning saw our IPFW leam step 

-&gt; and finally put away the opposition. Keena, 

[■'reunion. Smith and Sieinbach all scored to put 

Mastodons ahead I l-lll. The scire and stais 

could have been bom a football game— 21 runs 

day. coach Hilly Gernon would 
collect his Hindi win in six seasons at the helm 
of Ihe program. Il couldn't have come with a 
game in the opinion of this sports writer. 
Wednesday afternoon was not necessarily the 
have a ballgame. It was, however, a 

appro.it hing .'■!&lt;&gt; miles an huurshooi- 
/ards center turned what normally 

stands as a pretty large field into a hitlers para- 
ivere eight home runs hit on that day, 

ivhii h became part of a M total hits that were 

split by both d 



s this year. Especially s 



again, the Mastodons proved to be a 

late inning team Alter being held to a modest 
' ifter Ihe fourth inning, IPFW 



would r,n k up another 1 

lo again 






r "ppii-iu 



■ bye 



Lambert's thn 

hand Gernon his Htllib win in 
dramatic style. 

was pari of the II runs scored by both 
n the inning, which fortunately saw the 



Willi ll'IW down a- \ after four 11 

they were on track lo again come from behind 

and win another game. 

Turns out that they losi 13- r &gt;. Hits ami home 
runs again played the team, as YSU slapped 2(1 
hits and a grand slam to drop 1PI W for ihe sec- 
■ mi. I mi. tight game. 

The Mastodons only not hit- from Fremion, 
Armstrong and Sieinbach, for a grand total of 
three. So the weekend didn't go well for IPFW 
baseball, il happens. I he baseball team has 
arguably become ll'FW's most successlul spring 
spori this year. t. urreiitly. they are sitting on an 
1 If! record, with games almost all this week. 

It's a new week, and senior ace David 
Zachary is expected io return to the mound. I 



e hill also saw Man Hagedorn s 



before in my lite have I witnessed two 
games that kepi fans on the edge nl the hem ties 
ie like thai II was an experience 



tup for the first time 

adenton. Only time 

really is, but 



i be on pace to beat 2 

■ leam's aspirations of topping 30 o 




WIN: Team celebrates after a 11-10, ninth inning 
igainst the Dayton Flyers at Mastodon Field. 



BEST LOCATION. 
LOWEST RENT. 

PERIOD. e b c 



Ryan/ ctyan@ipfw 

back victory last Tuesday 




1 Month 
FREE rent 



$25 monthly discount for 
GPA of 3.0 or higher! 



Village Green Apartments 



Call Now 492-9272 Leasing Today! 



ES3 



ll'RV took Lidv;tntiige. Dustin Fremion doubled 
and Caleb Smith walked to start the inning off 
right. Then, Dayton pitcher ( rjij; Kohren walked 
liv.m stoinhach m (jet to Fowler. 

The third baseman answered with ihe 
game- winning sacrifice fly. 

Adam Ferris was credited with the victory 
while Rohren, who started at first hase for the 
Flyers, look the loss. 

"It felt real good. I haven't had a year as 
good as I wanted to, at least not so far. It really felt 
good, especially the way that game was going," 
noted Ferris. "It felt great to come in and shot 
them down when anybody could score." 

Thefollow'incilay. the M as (ud wis welcomed 



swing, and then we came back i„ 

Wriu.ru Male We c.ime back from a bigger deficit, 

and got two mid-week wins that we needed,'' 



hack-to b.ick-lu -h.u k lioiueruns in (he second 
IIIHM114 tirim lack Leopard, Ross Oeder and lustin 
Wilson. Heading into the bottom of the sixth, 
ll'FW trailed 7-1. 

Six runs on six hits highlighted the sixth 
inning for the Mastndnns. Fretnion, Kirk and 



liiimenin while K 
RBI double. 

In the eighth inning, a combined 11 runs 
were scored live of those runs came from the 
Haiders, including a grand slam by Brian Shoup. 
IPFW again fuuejn baik. nuluding a three run 
homerun by Lambert thai |iul ll'I-VV up for good 



An attempted ninth inning surge by Wright 
State was smothered by the pitching of Adam 
Gibson, (ribsori pitched tor one and two-thirds 
innings with two strikeouts. Gibson also picked 
up the victory. 

"Dayton and Wright Stale were big time 
wins, lo heat them in come back fashion was 
a big statement for us, and then to come back 
the next day and come back fighting uphill with 
a much improved Wright Slate learn out of the 
Horizon, a desired conference for our univer- 
sity, was a great win," said Gernon. "The greatest 
thing about our wins was that they were in come- 
back fashion." 

Bad weather in Youngstown, Ohio on 
Saturday forced 
Penguins to be m 
Sunday. 

A slow start was broken apart in the fifth 
inning with IPFW up 1-0. A third of an inning 
after entering the ballgame, Gibson gave up 
a grand slam to YSU's Erich Diedrich as the 
Penguins pulled ahead for good at 4- 1 . 

Also in the fifth, the Mastodons' Walton hit 
a homerun of his own, his second of the week. 
I PI W pulled within one at the end of the inning. 

In the seventh. Youngstown added three 
more runs and the Mastodons only managed one 
as they fell 7-1 in game one against the Penguins. 
1 he game ran only seven innings. 




four runs in the l.io ,»f the ihinl to poll ahead In 
an early 5-1 lead Itnan Dill Im a homerun tor the 
Penguins in (he third. 

IPFW rallied back in the fifth to pull with- 
in one run. but did not gel any closer to the 
Penguins Yonngs!nwn Male picked up the win 



l, just like this weekend, we only score 
eight runs in two games," said Frcmion. 

On Monday, the NAIA's Grace College came 
lo the campus of IPFW. In ihe eighth inning, 
the 10-nin rule was enacted as ihe Masuulons 
picked up the 13-3 win. It was Gernon's 101st 

bounce back against Grace. 



MilK[).nii;li luulaguoclilav, and lyler Piaal/ threw 
pretty well and got a win. It was just a good vic- 
tory. Anytime ynu win against anybody ai home. 

The Mastodons were actually down at the 
end of the first inning, bin came back swinging 
in the third. With Alwine and Hratulnn Armstrong 
mi base, iiyan Mienbaeli hii a three run home- 
run, his first long-ball of the season. 

Heading to the hoiiom ol the seventh, Grace- 
was down by only one when IPFW exploded lor 
seven runs on six hits, including a double from 
Alwine and a Brent Doty homerun. 

Grace did not get a runner on base for the 
rest of Ihe game Willi (he liases loaded ill the 
eighth, h.wlet singled in Meinhach and the game 
was called as IPFW took a 10-run lead. 

Tyler Baal/ picked up ihe Fust win of his 
college career, giving up live hiis and three runs 
Willi two strikeouts. Keegan L.iycoi k pitched two 
innings lor ihe Maslodous. giving up only one hi I 
Willi one strikeout. Iravis lohnson also pitched a 
one hit inning against Grace. 

Injured players return 

Both Mall I lagedom and I )a\ id /a&lt; hary arc- 
back full lime wiih the team I lagedom broke a 
hone in his hand during a game in Hradenion. 
Florida during the annual Spring Trip. 

"Mail's (Ffagednrni bat k luu percent. 'I his 
was a great game ioda\ against Grace lo give him 
an cipporinnity lo gel bat k oul lliete and catch. 
He'salitlle rusty with the hat. bin he hasn't swung 
the bat in three weeks," said Com h Hilly I icrnon. 
"lie gives us some more depth in catching, lo 
have Mall Hark gives us some options. Those two 
govs (Hagedorii and Dot\ i were battling lor ihe 
position, so I'm thrilled and privileged to have 
I wo guvs like ibein behind the plale." 

Zachary had an Mill last Wednesday on his 
pilch log a nil. Ihe worr\ a I ion I An hary was thai 
he had some damage in bis ulna nerve. Ihe Mlil 
came back negative. 

"He's got a potential pro career in front of 
him, and lie has elected lliai he's going to go for 
it and not take a red shin which I suppoii HH) 
percent, ' said Gernon. 

Zachary is planed lo start against UW- 
Milwaukee it the weaihei permiis on National 
Student Alhlete Day today. 



DOTY: Catcher Brent 
Doty makes contact at 
the plate in the game 
against Dayton last 
Tuesday. Doty had two 
hits in five at bats and 
drove in one run in the 
winagainst the Flyers. 
The next day against 
Wright State, Doty con- 
tributed two runs on one 
hit and two walks in the 
Mastodon's comeback 
victory over the Raiders. 
He started both games 
behind the plate. 



Gerr 






In 2004, Gernon returned much of his team 
and set oul lo have the best Mastodon team in 
the Division 1 era. IPFW opened the season on a 
downslide, d topping their first five games during 
the annual spring trip to Bradenton, Florida. 

Later in ihe trip, ihe st|ua&lt;J rebounded with 
what is arguably the team's biggest Df win against 
Boston College. 



twentieth of the year. H 

eighty-ninth win at IPFW. 

"He always talks about that, and defend 

your home turf," said senior Adam Ferris, "It's 

hard to schedule home games as it is here. So 

to lake advantage of those," he said alter ihe 
home win making Gernon's 100th. 

Gernon picked up career win 100 this sea- 

JStodons son in the team's seventeenth game of the year. 

&gt;y a total Fittingly. Lemon won number one hundred at 
lPFW's home park, where his career record is 

his total 47-32. 

"That was a big win for him, cspei ully with 
how crazy lhat game was. Il was good to see him 
gel il, since I've been here basically since lie 



A victory over Wright Stale lat 

SLIDE: Wright State 
Raider second baseman 
Brendan Rubenstein 
makes a play on Caleb 
Smith's stolen base at- 
tempt in the Mastodon's 
15-14 victory, Wednesday 
at Mastodon Field. The 
victory was the 100th 
in Coach Billy Gernon's 
five-plus year career at 
IPFW. Gernon came to 
the school in 1998 as an 
assistant coach and was 
promoted to head coach 
in 1999. 



l Ihe s 



Gernon improved t 
wiih a 13-3 win over lc 

&lt; ollege in eight innings 




IPFW 

Playmakers 
List 2005 

For ihe third 
straight week. IPFW 
volleyball captain 
Man /.hys/ewski was 
named a 'Mastodon 
Playmaker.' 

Zbyszewski had a 
career night in Chicago 
and ended up the 
weekend with 48 kills. 

The women's 
tennis team had an 
up and down week, 
headed up two wins 
from Jessica Vrvynckt. 
the first tennis 
Playmaker. 

A plethora or 
baseball players were 
considered, but in the 
end, Dustin Fremion 
st rind out with a cycle. 




Your Ad Here 



Your message could be read by over 5,000 
students! 



Contact Aiden @ IPSN Advertising 

(260)481-6583 

or 

ads@ipfwcommunicator.org 





^^^^^H 


V 






4**' * 


i 
i 


£p 




,,„,™.. n „. 




■ lh U "1 d St 


Air Force, you'll spend 


your days focused on practicing 


dentistry instead ot 


spending ihem dealing w 


endless hours of insurance comp 




staffing issues In additi 


n lo Ihe signing bonus, you'll get 


30 days ol vacation 


with pay and ihe opport 


nily to Iravet to locations around 


he globe where you 


can explore specialties 


■y Ihe world of denlistry. To reque 


t more inlormation. 


call 1-800-588-5260 or vis 


t AIRFORCE COM/HEALTHCARE. 





E23 



Adam Gibson: evolution in the game 

"He wants to be on the mound more than, or just as much as anyone." 

-Asst. Coach, Blaine McFerrin 



and the class- 




1 the SAC (Summit Athletic 
Conference} in strikeouts as a 
senior and that's a pretty good 
conference with Dwenger and 

] think he had no strike- 

;, and the remarkable thing 



EVOLUTION: Sophomore Adam Gibson has evolved from being a starting pitcher for the North Side Redskins 
in 2002, (TOP LEFT) to making his way from behind the plate to back on the mound as an IPFW Mastodon 
(TOP RIGHT) in 2005. Gibson currently has a 2-1 record so far this season. 



school. 
Keena and Gibson played 
against each other in high 



McFerrin. 

McFerrin also m 

Gibson's progress tins sen 
adding, " lie lias proved t 



Not only have his c 



AssisiiintCoachB! 

also thinks well of Gibson. 

"Adam Gibson is a very 
hard worker. He wants to be on 
the mound more than, or just 
as much as anyone. I feel like 
Ailam (Gibson] lias made some 



change as well. 

Dustin Fremion and 
Adam Farris both mentioned 



Farris shares lime on the 
mound with Gibson, and never 
gave up on the resilience of 
■ his teammate. Farris added. 
""When he left last year, we all 
kind of knew he was going to 
come back and not miss a step, 
and he hasn't." 

Gibson signed on late with 
IPFW. He did lead North Side, 
as well as all other area pitch- 



One of the dynamic things 
about the sophomore is that 
he did play both pitcher and 
catcher in high school, and sit- 
uations arose his first year at 
IPFW that employed his diverse 
experience. 



d I had to catch," Gibson 



nd partially his fault 
when it came to grades, and 
would rather not dwell on those 
troubles now that he is back on 
the squad. 



"Gibby" likes to play Xbox when 
he has free time. 

He responded, "I guess 
you could say that, I love MVP 
Baseball, HALO, and Madden. 
Every year a football game 
comes out I'll play that. Yeah. 
I play my fair share of video 
games, you could say that." 

Coach Gernon is proud 
of Gibson's progress since his 
freshman year. He said, "I love 
to see somebody bounce back 
and fight adversity like he has. 
I hope he continues to do it 
because there are some great 
things that can happen to him 
if he does.'' 



OFF THE FIELD _« 



This week, Dan sits down to talk to KEEGAN LAYCOCK, junior pitcher for the 2005 IPFW 
baseball team. 



"I have seen a lot of big strong guys trying 
baseball and there is a lot more to it than that." 



/: Do you have any nicknames? 
KL:lgetalotol"DragO" from fiody 
DV: Think you could take him in a boning 
, KL:No, 




I 



