3DNESDAY, 
tober 24, 2001 

jir MS on tfie weB 
'orarticfes aji/ 
atures notfowui 
inyrint issues 

'lume 36, Issue 9 



INSIDE: 



Letter to Iheedilor, 
p. 2 



Honors Program cck- 
hrate^ arnivcrswir)-, p 3 



Dropkkk Muiphysv 



■Vagina Monologues' 
dcb\vd. p 6 



The 



One free copy 
per student 



IPFW 



Communicator vw^ 



Indiana University — Purdtie Universihj Fort Wayne 



\Iews Briefs 

■at lunch with 
^our legislators 

The IPFW Alumni Association 

announced the Lcgi.^lallvc 

l^^/ncsday, Ocl, 31, from ll-W 
a.m.-l p.m.. in the IPFW Waib 
Union BallroDm. 

The cost for the luncheon is S8 
(or dues-paying IPFW alumm. 
SIO lor the general public and 
free of charge to Indiana legisla- 
tors and students. 

The luncheon program 
includes a look at wliat IPFW h.is 
accomplished through state 
funding made possible by the 
hard work ol our area state legis- 
lators- Rep. Bob Alderman, Rep. 
Gary Dillon. Rep. Ief( Espich, 
Sen. David Ford, Rep. Ben 
GiaQuinta, Rep. Gloria Goeglein, 
Rep. Dennis Kruse, Sen. David 
L.ong, Sen Bud Meeks, Sen. 
Robert Meeks, Rep. Win Moses, 
Rep. Phyllis Pond.Rep. Mike 
Ripley, Rep. Dale Slorlz. Sen. 
Harold "Polch" Wheeler and Sen. 
Tom Wyss. 

Please call 219-1B1-6807 to 
reserve your seal a1 the apprecia* 
lion luncheon. For additional 
mformalion. contact (ennifer 
Bosk, director ol alumni rela- 
lions, 219-481-6174. 

Play auditions to 
begin Nov. 11 

The IPFW department ol the- 
alrc will hold audUions tor their 
upcoming ptoduclion o( Ticosso 
at the Lapin Agile^ on Sunday, 
Nov. II in Williams Theatre. 
General auditions involving 
readings from the script will 
begin at 5 p.m. "Picasso at the 
Lapin Agile,' by Steve Martin, 
will be directed by lane Pursc- 
Wiedunhocll. 

'Picasso at the Lapin Agile' 
willlw presented February 15. 16, 
21, 22 and 23 in Williams 'Theatre. 
Rehearsals will begin during the 
week of (an. 17- 

Direclor lane Purse- 

Wiedei^hoefl is looking for a cast 
to four women ages 20-50 






I ages 21 



'Picasso at the Lapin Agile,' a 
long-ninmng off-Broadway com- 
edy, places Albert Einstein and 
Pablo Picasso in a Parisian cafS in 
1904, just before the renowned 
scientist transformed physics 
with his theory of relativity and 
the celebrated painter set tne art 
world afire with cubism. 

In 'Picasso at the Lapin Agile.' 
Steve Martin's first comedy for 
the stage, the popular aclor, 
comic and screenwriter plays fast 
and loose with fact, fame and for* 



Weather 






Asian community supports victims 



By Todd Hamm, News Editor 

Members of the Asian com- 
munity in Fort Wayne came to a 
rally at the Gates Sports Center 
on Sunday. Ocl, 21 to pray and 
show their support for those 
affected by the Sept. 11 terrorist 
attacks on New York Cily and 
the Pentagon, 

Lead by the Asian Prayer for 
America Committee and the 
Peoples^ Union ol Burma, the 
rally featured the singing of a 
number of national songs, as 
well as speeches bv Asian .ind 
Buddhist leaders. Furl Waynt- 



mayor Graham Richard and 
IPFW Chancellor Michael 
Wartcll- 

Hoa Tran, Chairperson of the 
Asian Prayer (or America 
Committee, said "the Asian 
communities of Fort Wayne 
would like to send our condo- 
lences 10 those who have suf- 
fered ordied.TTicyarc our peo- 
ple. Terrorists can kill and 
destroy, but they cannol lake 
away our spirit. We want lo 
send our 100 percent support to 
Ihevi ■ " 



open arms." He said America 
"fed and nurtured us and gave 
us opportunities ive did not 
have in our homelands. For this. 
our hearts go out lo all the 
Americans who died on Sept. 

Mayor RichanJ spoke on how 
the Asian community could par- 
ticipate in the new war. He said 
Americans must be cautious. 

"A free society can only be 
free if we are vigilant," he said. 

In order to remain vigilant, 
Richard said the cily and the 
county have invested millions ol 



id, could be usod during any 
type of disastrous situation or 
event, including a terra cist 
attack. 

He added, 'we're doing more 
with Iraining," saying said Fort 
Wayne was oneof 60 cities in the 
counlry to receive special anil- 
terrorism Iraining from Ihc fed- 
eral government. 

Richard said that in order lo 



Famed screenwriter visits 



ly Todd Hamm, News Editor and viewed as the lowest of the 



IPFW theatre students came 
face-lo-facc with some of the 
harsh realities of screen writing 
and Ihe big business of 



low. 

Levy's lecture, however, was 
not completely unencou raging. 
Levy, Ihe author of 17 novels, 
told a number ol heartwarming 
stories behind her books. 

The last book she published. 
"Runfor Your Life." iJegan with 
Levy's interest in the story of a 
dark-compleclcd man named 
Darren, who created a track 
team composed of 13 inner city 
teenage gi ' 



"She « 



:ning. 



; deaf ii 



Today 
Showers 

High: 64 
Low: 55 

Tjiursday 

Showers 
High: 48 
Low: 43 

Friday 
Rain 
High: 43 
Low: 28 

Saturday 
Rain 
High; 50 
Low: 42 



Index 

opinions 2 

Highlights 3 

Features 4,5 

News 6 



accompiisnca ituven^i .iiiu 

^^^^^^^^1 Marilyn 
^^^^^^^^^1 visited 

^Hr^l campus 

^B^H lhe° 
^^^^^^^^^ play for the 
Levy (iim 'Bride ol 

I 1 the VVind,' 

which played al the Cinema 

Center on Monday night, 

debunked a number of myths 

about her profession and 

advised would-tic writers that 

Iheir counterparts in 

Hollywood are often treated 

Alumni celebrate Millennium Walk 



As a result of participating 
on Ihe track team, all of Ihc girls 
moved away from their inner 
city project homes in Oakland, 
Caliloinia. and went on lo col- 
lege. Some are now incraduale 
school, Uvy said. The girls' 



mothers also all got jobs to help 
support Ihe track leam. 

Afler Levy wrote the book, a 
studio purchased its film rights. 
Levy said Ihcsludio has appar- 
ently shelved Ihe project, 
though, as the film has yet lo be 
made. 

One of her screcnplay.s, how- 
ever, was eventuallv filmed. 
The piece, 'Bride of Itic Wind,' 
about Ihe life of Austrian Alma 
Mahler, was filmed in 2000 and 
released Ihis past summer. 

Larry Life, director of Ihe 
IPFW thcalrc department said 
Ihal although the film was only 
in Fort Wayne for this iveek s 
showing, it would likely ictum 
lo the Cinema Center in 
January, 

When Levy began describing 
Alma's story, an audience mem- 
ber raised her h.iiid lo commcnl 
Ihal she had likewise laken the 
same inlercsl in the story. She 
added thai she was "fascinat- 
ed" with Alma Mahler and 



never forgot the story. 

Levy agreed with the 
woman's senlimenl. 

"She's really a complex char- 
acter," Levy said. "She's infuri- 
ating, intelligent and loved by 
all the men around her. She cap- 
lured the minds of everyone,' 

Levy said Alma, who lived in 
the early pari of the 2aih 
Century in Vienna, was also an 
accomplished composer and 
pianist who had a number of 
romances with prc-World War 
II Europe's elite. 

captivating Iraits was her way 



when she lislencd 
she leaned towards Ihc speaker, 
creating an intimate space 
beliveen them. Men love that." 
Alma married two Jewish 
men in her lifetime. Alma, how- 
ever, made anti-Semitic 

See Levy, p. 6 



IPFW alumni got their first 
chance lo see Iheir names, 
majors and graduation daiu^; 
ir\scribed on bricks forming the 
recently completed Millennium 
Walk monument during a dedi- 



1 ceremony 



1 Sunday 



Ocl. 21. 

The ceremony also drew 
members of Ihe community 
including Mayor Graham 
Richards, who spoke on the 

Ihe more than 32.000 alumni of 
the university 

"The Millennium Walk 
serves lo memorialize all those 
who cared about this campus, " 
the mayor, a former sludenl and 
teacher at IPFW.r-^-' 



"I kno 



' Ihis ci 



than just about building. I know 
iLis.really atoul.a. commitment 
lo Indiana," he said. 

Thai commitment includes 
arly 82 percent ol IPFW 



radual 



choos 



nd work in northeast 
Indiana, said Jennifer Bosk, 
IPFW Alumni Relations diret- 

JPFW Chancellor Michael 
Warlell said alumni responded 
ivarmly lo the projecl. 

As of 13cl, 21. 1752 bricks 
have been sold, according to 
Linda Rufloto, direclor of devel- 
opment al IPFW. 

Ruffolo said the monument 




for the bricks t 
See Alumni, p. 6 dedicating the 



Photo by Todd Hamm. News Editor 
IPFW professor Al Perez and Jennifer Bosk, Alumni Relations direclor, search 



intaining their names and graduation classes du 
lew Millennium Walk on Ocl. 21. 



n the 



ol war. The loots ol technology 
can be used for bolh good and 
bad. Terrorists use globalization 
to wreak evil," Richard said. 

He said that citizens should 
also educate themselves and 
keep up on current events in the 

"We can also learn the nature 
.inrt mnaning ol Istam and how 
irpco and misconstrued 
■ninds of the terrorisls,' 
said, Richard called Ihe ler- 
Tsts' ideals and views ol then 

See Community, p, 6 



Bomb 
threats 
disrupt 
campus 

By Heidi Saliba, Editor 



Two bomb threats were called 
in lo IPFW Thursday, Ocl. 18. 
According to campus Police 
Chief Lauren Denhartog, the 
first was called in lo the 
Informalion Desk in Kettler Hall 
around l;30 p.m. The caller indi- 
cated Ihal a bomb would go off 
in thai building. The second was 
called in around 3 p.m. lo Police 
and Safety, and the caller said 
Ihe re were bombs in Classroom 
Medical and Nefl Hall. 

Denhartog said the buildings 
were evacuated and searched. 
but no bombs were found. 

He said police are investigat- 
ing several leads, and that "one 
or two" of Ihe leads arc "very 
strong." 

The act of calling in a bomb 
threat is a Class D Iclonv and is 
punishable by one and a half 
years in prison. Denharlog said a 
S5,0O0 reward will be paid to 
anyone providing information 
which leads to Ihe arrest and 
conviction of the person or per- 
sorvs responsible for the threats. 
He docs not believe the 
threats are terrorist-related or In 
any way linked lo the events of 
Sept. 11. 

"I think what we have here "is 
a student who doesn't under- 
stand the seriousness of what 
they've done," Denharlog said, 

4veral years ago IPFW 
received a series of called-in 
bomb threats, all of which were 
bogus, A sludent was later 
arrested and prosecuted for 
making Ihe threats, which she 
carrico out on days when tests 
were scheduled in certain of her 
classes. Another person was 
arrested a year later, also for call- 
ing in threats. 

"We've been pretty successful 
in catching people." DcnHartog 
said. 

The person or persons 
responsible for the threats, if 
found guilty, may face fines of 
up to SIO.OIK) and an additional 
one and a half years in prison if 
"aggravating circumstances" 
were present at the time of Ihc 



Anthrax fear increases in nation, despite isolation 



By Brandon Srhwaitze. Reporter 

Anthrax is a bacterial disease 
thaleidslsin three forms, A cuta- 
neous form is contrticled when 
the human body is enposed lo 
anthrai through open sores, 
nicks or cuts in the skin. 

The other two forms of 
anthrax, the first pure culture 
being obtained by Robert Koch 
in 1876. are contracted through 
inhalation, which then proceeds 
lo attack the rmpiralory s)'stem 
or the intestines. Anthrai, 
jllhough dangerous, is not con- 
lagioL 



allh threat, the repoilcd 
cases have all been isolaled. The 
most recently reported case 
involves a postal service 
employee in Washington. D,C. 
diagnosed with inhalation 

iPF\V/ Parkview Health and 
Wellness Clinic nurse praelilion- 



person like droplets. A lot of 
limes, hke with pneumonia. 
people cough on each 
Olher...you're not going to get it 
that way." 

Once in the system, inhala- 
tion anthrax is dormant for 1-6 
days, then the symptoms begin 



nifcsl IhemseK 
Erickson said thai at this 

Kint. an infeclcd person will 
ve flu-like symptoms, includ- 
ing "a headache, a non-produc- 
tive cough and achy joints." 

Because anthrax's symptoms 
are similar (o those of the flu. it 
can easily be masked. This 
means that people could actual- 
ly have anthrax and be misdiag- 
nosed as having the flu when 
they seek treatment- This misdi- 
agnosis can be serious because if 
treatment is not begun within 48 
hours afler eiposure. death can 

There are two types of treat- 
ment that can be employed 



Led, Much 
tike the flu, there is a vaccine for 
anlhrax, one form of which was 
developed by frenchman Louis 
Pasteur m 1881. 

However, the anthrax vaccine 
is not currently available lo the 
general public because the only 
manufacturer of Ihe vaccine 
docs not have permission from 
Ihe nJA (0 produce the drug. 

The FDA cited non-compli- 
ance with Ihe vaccine's packag- 
ing as a reason for not giving 
permission. VWlhout a vaccine. 
the only other treatment lies in 
-ilibiolics. 



One 

Ciprono. 



nlibiotic i 
1, also known a 



Cipro IS a drug used for treat- 
ing bacterial inleclion of the res- 
piratory Iracl. as with inhalation 
anthrax; as well as the urmary 
trad, as with the gaslrointes final 
form: and the skin, as with the 
cutaneous form. Initialing treat- 
ment with Cipro should not be a 
problem. Erickson said. 
According to Erickson. Cipro 
will not become a commodity 
and tJie hospitals will liave a 
ready supply with which to 
begin treatment should some- 
thing more than isolated cases 

See Anthrax, p. 6 



Page 2 The Communicator 



Opinions 




Con 



According lo Gallup, Ihesf ate Ihe following Top 
1 1) Presidential Approval Ratings of all lime. 

1. G.W. Bush, 90%, Sepl. 21-22, 2001 

2. Bush, 89%. Feb, 28-March 3, 1991 
G.W. Bush, 89%, Oct. 11-14, 2001 

4. G.W, Bush. 88%, Oct. 19-21, 2001 

5. Tmman, 87%, June 1-5, 1945 
Bush, 87%, March 7-10, 1991 

7. G.W, Bush, 87%, Oct. 5-6, 2001 

8. Bush, 86%, March 14-17, 1991 
G.W. Bush, 86%. Sept. 14-17, 2001 

10, Roosevelt, 84%, Jan. 8-13, 1942 
Roosevelt, 84%, Jan. 25-31, 1942 
Bush, March 21-24, 1991 



Gamecocks or gym socks? 



Reccnily. Ihe Pcopit (or Ihe Elhical Trcalmenl ol Animals (PETA) asked Ihc 
Univcrsilv of South Carolina to thangc Ihe nickname ol its sporls teams, Ihe 
Gamecocks, because Ihc term glorifies ihe cruelly and violence of cock fighting, 
according lo Ihe Charlolle Observer. 

"Like spousal tibusc. bank roblJcty and driving white inloxicaled, cockfighling is 
illegal in South Carolina," said PETA spokeswoman KrUlie Phelps. "It's a safe bet 
Ihal officials at Ihe University oi South Canalina would never dream ot calling their 
alhlclic teams Ihe Docfighlers, the VVifebcalcrs. the Looters or the Road-Ragers." 

PETA suggests the "Gym Socks" or Ihe "Pel Rocks" or "anything th.it doesn't 
perpetuate animal cruelty." 

Members of Ihe athletics department said they have no 



o Ihe "Fifihlin' Gym Socks" any li 
atiy interest by the Carolina community m changing Ihe n 
use spokesman Russ McKinnev 

Yeah, eiery kid dreams of being a Gym Sock. 



inlenlion of changing 
ugine there would be 
of Ihcir mascot." said 



Fort Wayne: looking back on a life on enjoyment 



Korl W.iynf-whal ,i nciiiderful place. 

Eversince I was a lillle boy. 1 loved commg 
lo Fort Wayne. I remember driving over the old 
slecl-frame bridges that used tc ■ '-' 



dgt 
Tonkcl and Mayhew jiist riotth of 
3Vclo.^alkalDnB 
I b I ca I on e I S a Iki vay tn the 



iMayl 
d to-io 



Staff 
Editorial 



and I le m enlbCT" ^slng lin'der the 
apple tree, prelendmg I was Ihe 
young Jolinny who pTanled apple 
seeds all over. : 

Showbiz PtZ£j and an appear- : 

ante on Happy's Place made for the 
greatest bitthaay party ever and visiting the 
newly built Toys- R- Us was my dream come 
■-?. School shopping at Sears and Kohl's was a 
- -r treat. 

1 became a teenager and was able to 
weekend was often made complete 
by a trip to Glenbrook Mall to try to pick up ferred lo IPFW and joined the cross country 
some chicks. 1 nrmcmber my best friend and I learn where I met a lot of awesome people, 
taking lurru walking the square al the mall lo Getting involved in cross country was great 1 
■ ■ " 'eat us. made some close friends. Weekends were 

■ strolls always busy especially with malting road trips 



When 



St siiic of Fori Wayne. Dorm life was 
; and my newfound friends and I 
Iten i.ice around Ihe big circle al Foster 
Park on Ihe trend of Ihe late '90s. 
recreational inline skates. 
, ,. We would skate for Ihtcc or 
lour hour^ on end, looking at Ihc 
beaulilul homes around Ihe campus. 
Late night runs consisted of playing - 
: hide-and-go-seek in Meijcr and stop- 
: ping alSteak-n-Shakefor a Frisco Melt 

; Platter with Iwo sides of fries and a 

Very. Very Strawberry Shake, 
Taylor eitended my views of Fort Wayne 
past the noilheasl side of the city. For the first 
lime in my life. I spent an extended amount of 
time downtown, skatmg through the newly 
completed Headwaters Park. 

However, I missed ' ' 



ng lui 

ivho could gel the i 
Although I was a big talker, 
around the mall never led lo any da 
although my friend, a bit mon; outgoing than 1. 
d.iled several girls he met there. What a great 
story it made lo lell all your friends in high 
school how you met Ihe holtie from North Side 
at Ihc mall over Ihe weekend. 

In high school, it seemed that nothmg 
could ever compare to the glory of Fort Wayne 
where one seemed lo have it alt — shopping, fun 
and girts. What else could a guy need? 

When I left for my first year of college, 1 









taking 



advantage ol the free l-emon Ice with a 
ID. 

After my knees gave out on me, I was 
forced to retire from running, a decision that 
was hard and Ihal t wish 1 ttad not been forced 
lo make. My ever- increasing waistline is a con- 
stant reminder of that decision. 

Now thai my life doesn't revolve around 
athletics or dorm life, life in Fori Wayne bos 



ived in Ihe dorms of Taylor-Fort Wayne on the changed a lot. Since I do 



alcohol or going lo bars, there isn't loo much 
lell to do m Fort Wayne. 

Fori W,)yne doesn't hold Ihc greatest of 
choices for a guv who loves to oance and 
abhors the bars. VVhen Ihe rare occasion does 
present ilself for me Id donee, you had belter 
believe I will be the first one to jump in. 

I've become a bit more crown up in Ihe 
past couple of years Stopping oy Ihe Java Bean 
Cafi^ to grab a caramel latte has become a staple 
to start my weekends. Nothing gets an old. 
tired dude off the ground like a cup full of caf- 
feine and no night is as enjoyable without caf- 
feine as it is with a strong latte from Ihe Java 
Bean. 

my aggressive K2 
arious parts of Fort 
Wavne. locations of which need not be 
adoressed. Skating is always a pleasure-the 
simple sight of my K2s create awe and demand 
respect from felloiv skaters. 

On a cold or rainy day, after a coffee and a 
game or two of chess, an hour or Iwo of bowl- 
ing at Georgetown Bowl completes Ihe night. 
There's nothing like being one of the only 
groups of college students in an alley full of 
high schoolers. 

Fort Wayne: the Summit City and home of 
Ihe Division I IPFW Mastodons. It's an enjoy- 
able cilv, it you take enjoyment in walking over 
Ihe cobblestone at the mall, trymg lo get chicks 
Id smile at you or if you dream ol tieing a little 
[ohnny Appleseed. 

Fort Wayne is simply a city where you can 
sit with friends, drink a coffee and bowl. 



Contact Us! 



Tlie Communicator 

Suite 215. Wa!b Student Union 

2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 

Fon Wayne. IN 46805 

St upa pe r @ h ol mes , i pf w.e d u 

Editor: 481-6584 
Publisher 481-6585 

Advertising: 481-6583 
Fax: 481-6045 



Editorial Board 



Held) Sallba, EJnor 

Nulhin DIchI, ^tanusing Edilar 

To&lt;JdHanim.,Vr..j£J,(or 

Ra»n EJirlj. f,-.».,fri Edilor 

Adam Spitlh. J/vjoj Ednar 

Dcnnlfi Zhic, riioln Ediinr 

Kath) Dclaemnge. Copi Eitiiur 

Brandon Schvmtm, Repontr 

.And) Wctnc. Riponir 

Elb SlUtimnn. Ad\tninn:c Mana 

SliBnnila Wjcyakumar. Sptcmt 

Dflric Rrynolds, Publiibrr 



Letter to the editor 



To Ihe Editor: 

In response lo Ihe stalf editorial in the Oct. 
17 issue of The Communicator titled. "Computer 
btis and gamers don't mix," I would like lo stale 
Ihall resent the depiction of a pimple-faccd geek, 
I also resent the fact of being singled out as Ihe 
sole culprit to computer misuse on carnpus. The 
fact is that 99.9 percent of people on campus use 
the computers lor things other than their "uni- 
versity responsibilities," tjjoking around the 
room, I see sites like Vahoo!, Cnet and 
IwistcdHumor and at least two people are using 
messenger services that I can see from my chair 
at the back of Ihe lab. No, I will not deny that at 
times gamers can be loud, but so can two CS 
majors talking about the latest technology, which 
happens to be the case al pn:sent. 

Gamers aren't the only ones who share our 
usernames and access lo the computers. I gel oil 
work around II p.m. and will stay pretty much 
until the lab closes. I have seen University Police 
come up and ask for campus ID and out of the 
regular gamers, none were asked lo leave, bul I 
have seen a number ol others asked to. 

I commend you for your single sentence 
regarding people in chat rooms, but bnng no 
mention ol Ihctse who will go to the 24-hour 
study tab and set Iheir backpacks and coats 
around a computer, and then sit at a table and 
study for hours on end. Pay no mmd to those 
who occupy four or live computers al a time and 
then group around one and have a group discus- 



sion for a couple hours whether school related or 
not. while the other computers sit unused. Also 
fail to mention the people who come in and pnnt 
off two reams ol paper that has to do with a trip 
they are taking, or a conversation they had wiiK 
a friend online, so that no one else can print any- 
thing off. Fail to realize that inconsiderate people 
come in all shapes and sizes, and aren't limited 
to any specific genre. So unless you wish to limit 
Inlemcl access to a few closely monitored com- 
puters with time limits on use, you cannot put an 
end to all misuse on campus and you cannot 
denounce or deny access to one group a\tt 
another simply because you have determined it 
to be the lesser of two evils. 

Make no mistake, this letter is not IDsay that 
the gamers do not have their faults, because 
some do cause a disturbance. The lacl is that 
almost everyone who uses campus computers is 
in some wav to blame at one time or another. So 
to the mcmbcis of the stall who perpehjalcd this 
editonai, unless vou are in that 0.1 percent ol Ihe 
true followers of "university responsibihty" use, 
Ihe neJil lime you are reading an email that isn't 
from a fellow student or professor, or visiting a 
recreational site, or anything that doesn't tall 
under your "university rcspoiwibi lilies," remem- 
ber that people who live in glass houses should- 



Why are you 
straight? 

As most of my loyal rc.iders already know. I 
have an opinion about a Irriosl everything. If I don' 
have an opinion, I can usually at least attempt to 
make up an answer lo get me through. 

Recently, I was asked a 
question that I couldn't 
niadily answer. After I was 
laughed at for not knowing 
the answer, I had to admit 
that I r&lt;;.illy didn't know 
the aixswcr. 

Normally when I'm hit 
by a rcally tough question, 

recall another lime when a 

question left me totally and 

utterly speechless. It was a 

simple question, bul not a naKfian Diehl, 

question that I knew the Managing Editor 

answer to. 

The question simply asked. "Why are you 
straight?" 

I had no ai\swer or explanation for why I nm 
siraighl, 1 tried to think of something really quick- 
ly, but before I could thirvk of a reason, the two 
people I was speaking with started laughing at 
and said something to the effect of, "Don't ever 




From the 
Right 



tell 



cyou 



lal' 



Humiliated after being made fun of for my 
lack of reasoning, I could only say, "That's the way 
God made mc." which was not a good enough 
answer for them. 

What bothered me most was not that I could- 
n't answer the question, but Ihe fad thai the Iwo 
guys made fun of me and laughed al me because 
Ihe question left me speechless. 

Is it really that abnormal in this day and age to 
be so secure in my manhood that I have never 
questioned my sexuality? Why is it that it's no 
longer considered normal not to question your sex- 
Should I rcally have been made fun of because 
I have never thought about it? Is the fad that I am 
secure in my sexuality a basus for making fun of me 
and attempting to tear mc down? 

Is this world coming to a place where we arc 
all expected to question and decide in our own 
minds if we are meant to have kids or |ust live out- 
side of marriage all our lives? The liberal media 
would like it to. 

Must we be taught that sexuality is something 
you are bom with? And why, if you are bom with 
it, would you ever have lo make a conscious deci- 

If 1 am forced to make a corucious decision 
about my sexuality, 1 am no longer able to claim 
equal rights. A decision is a decision, and holds no 
power to equal protection. 

If someone decides to be a nudist, they do not 
have the right to be a nudist anyivhere they want. 
A choice does not guarantee you any rights. A 
choice guarantees you nothing other than the right 






nopm 



Too often people make a decision and cbim, " 
was bom thai way." 

Science makes some pretty good sense. Man 
and woman have sex. little boy or little girl comes 
as a result. Process repeats, 

Man and man have "sex." End of story. 

To Ihe question I was asked, "Why are you 
straight?" I now have an at«wcr. 

"I've never thought about il." 



Editorial Policy 



Unsigned editorials are Ihe opinions of The 
Communicator The opinions expressed do m 
ily reflect the views of IPFW, its employees oi 
body. A column is solely the opinion of its auinur. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from its 
readers. Letters to the Editor and euest columns must be 
signed, dated and accompanied by a current, valid 
address, phone number, class standing or title and major. 
L,etleis without these requirements will not be coiuid' 
ered for publication. 

All submissions made via e-mail wdl be verified by 
phone or m person. Submissions via mail or e-mail with- 
out this information will not be published, encepl under 
extraordinary circumstances. Addresses and phoncnum- 
Iwrs will never be published. 

Submissions must t&gt;e lypewnllen, double-spaced 
and no more than 400 words. Deadline is 6 a.m. on the 
Monday prior to the prmi dale (o allow for timely con- 
sideration. 

The editorial tmard of The Communicator reserves 
the righl to edit all submissions for length, grammar, 
style and clarity. Letters deemed libelous by The 
Communicator's editorial board will not be publislied 
under any circumstances. 



Highlights 



What's up this week 

Wednesday, Ocl. 24 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer Meeting noon-UJOpm Neff 257 

Pagan Student Alliance meeting 7:30p-10KK)p Walb 114 and 116 

United Sexuaiitics Prism meeting Walb 110 6J0 - 9i30pm 

Thursday, Oct. 25 

Anime 101 meeting SB 304 5:00-7:00pm 

IPFW Fencing practice - Gates Sport Center 6.30pm-9:00pm 

Friday, Oct. 26 

intcrVarsity Christian Fellowship group meeting 6pm-llpm 

Walb G21 

Black Collegian Caucus Jazz Si. Poetry Bash Engineering Tech. Buildin 
10pm 

Delta Gamma Scholarship Dinner Walb 222-226 6:00pm-9:00pm 

Saturday, Oct, 27 

United Sexualities Drag Show set-up Walb Ballroom 

Campus Ministries Pizza Hut and Haunted Jait 

Sunday, Ocl. 28 

Delta Sigma Pi Pledge meeting 6pm-9pm Walb Union 114 

Pi Beta Phi 5pm-9pm Walb Union, Rooms 222 and 226 

United Sexualities Drag Show 6:00pm - 9:a0pm Walb Ballroom 

Campus Ministry Money Mgmt. 3pm-4pm VValb 110 

Delta Gamma meeting NF 149 5p-8p 

Tuesday, Oct. 30 

Newman Catholic Group Catholic Mass n:30-2:00pm Walb G21 

IPnv Fencing practice - Gates Sport Center 6r30pm-9:00pm 

Wednesday, Oct. 31 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer Meeting r 



i-12:30pm Net f 257 

Pagan Student Alliance meeting 7:30p'10:00p G21 - Columbia rooi 

United Sexualities Prism meeting Walb 110 6:30 - 9:30pm 

Psi Chi Counseling Degree Seminar noon-l:00pm NF 147 
Information courtesy of the Office of Student Life, from thei 
www.ipfw.edu/stuliie/calendars/events/Ocl_eve,hlm 



T and G21A- Fairfield 



Honors Program celebrates twentieth 
anniversary with banquet 

Students honor the faculty for dedication to teaching, mentoring 



By Heidi Satiba, Editor 

On the lower level of Walb Studenr Union la.&lt;^l 
Wednesday. Ocl, 17. a group of Honors sludenls 
recognized certain facully members, adminislra- 
lors and a police officer lor their dedication lo stu- 
dents and higher Icanung. 

The event, wliich was pari of the IPFW 
Honors Program's twentieth anniversary week, 
was a celebration conceived of and organized by 
students. Students involved brought in homemade 
food for the banquet, then served lunch to the lac- 
ullv t&gt;einK honored. During the meal, students 
took lums talking about who tney were honoring 
and why. Thank-you notes and personal awards 
were prepared by (he studcnls (or those being fion- 

The event was neither exclusive lo nor mdu- 
sive of Honors Faculty memtjcts. but rather decid- 
ed upon by individual Honors students according 
to who tiad made the largest or most significant 
dilference in Iheir IPFW careers. Some faculty were 
honored for providing challenging curricula, for 
excellence in teaching, for acting as mentors or (or 
various other reasons. Several faculty were hon- 
ored by more than one student. 

Persons who were honorcd include the fol- 
lowing: 

James Farlow of Ceosciences 

Jelf Slraycr of Philosophy 

Rich.ird Johnson o( Modem Foreign 

Languages and Peace &amp; Conflict Studies 

Beth Simon ol English 



The VMCAofGrcaitrFi 

Wayne is looking (or encrgclic 

put- lime it aft Tor (he 

rollowing positions: 

■ Fitness Staff 

' Swim Insiruclors 

■ Ccnifted Lifeguards 

ind tuvc emllcni fiunun lelalion 



Cenlial Brjncti YMCA 

Aim Heidi WejEner 

1 020 Ban Si. 



Stop in &amp; see wliat we're all about.... 

'^^ *' NaKed Clay Cafe 

COFFEE HOUSE 

* ^82-2332 




Student seats are available to 

serve on 

The Board of Directors of 

The Communicator. 

if interested, please call 

481-6585 for information 

regarding membership 

on the board. 



Mar&gt;' Ann Cam of English 

Lucille Hess of Audiologv 

ThDma.s Kaough ol English 

Heddy Samavali ol Economics 

David Dills ol Economics 

Mike Slaubaugh ol Accounting 

Ed Leonard of Man.igemenI &amp; Markcling 

Jeff Davis of Police 4 Safely 

Ralph Violelte ot History 

Ben Gales. Campus Minister and Kislur^' 

Sieve Carr of Com mimical ion 

David SwiUer of Communication 

Jane Banks ol Communication 

Chris Pallerson. Mullicullural Si-r\-ices 

Director and Hi.itory 
Barbara Resell of Music 
Michael Warlell. Chancellor 
Mall Kubik, Honors Program Director and 

Architecture and Engineering 
Carl Drummond ol Ceosciences 
Gary Blumenshine o( History 
Peggy McCarly of Art and 
David Maloney ol Physics. 

The Honors Program regularly hosts salellile 
seminars, colfec breaks, lunch talks and various 
other educallonal opportunities. The new Honors 
Center, opened in March of this year, is located in 
KettterG35. 

Several faculty members and two Honors stu- 
dents will be presenting Iheir research in Chicago 
in early November at Ihe National Collegiate 
Honors Council's annual confen.nce 



PIEASE RECYCLE THIS NEIMSPAPER 



Would you pay $4.95 for 

professor's 




DM mo rwxt baal tnino. QtilckSttrOy' lamlnalBtf rvlam: 



QuickStudy. 



(9)nnibiis j&amp;ctuze &lt;^eries 




"The War Against Parents" 

One of the first black scfioiars at Harvard University to receive 
the academic title of professor, the school's highest faculty post. 
West teaches Afro-American studies and philosophy of religion. 

7:30 p.m.« Thursday, Oct. 25, 2001 
IPFW Walb Student Union Ballroom 



Free public lecture 
Free parking 

/lPFW\ 



American Sign langutige inlerprelerprnvided upon request. 

Letture funded by a grant from tbe English, Bonier. Mitchell Foundaiion. 

Media sponson: WB\IS9- 1 and NeutCbannel 15 



Affamant Ktoil 
EquiJ ofipominiiy 



Features 






View 'From Hell' has interesting perspective 

Curtain 
CaCC 



(By "BrancCon 

Scfiwarze 




fnr three monlh.s, j serial killer orcheslrale .1 reign of terror in .1 
Ji-.(riL-| known .is Whitechjpcl in London's EjsI End that held the 
■iciiolliLT Majesty's Empitccjptn'aled by (ear. 

TheM-Tial Idlfer in question scnl a lew notes about the mundcrs 
to Scotland Yard. At least one 0/ those Holes was signed '(acl: the 
Ripper," The name stuck. During his activities, the Ripper look Ibc 
lives of seven members of the world's oldest profession. All were 
murdered in the same method; slit Ihroal, mutilated body, a slashed 
symbol of womanhood and, in some cases, the removal of inlcmal 
organs. In one of his nolcs, the Ripper confessed 10 eating pari of a 
victim's liver. The remainder of Ihe organ was sent with the note. 

Each of the killings was executed wilh evacl precision. It is 
Ihought Ihat Ihe murders were carried out wilh a scalpel. However, 
Ihe removal of Ihe liver, a teal reauiring advanced knowledge of 
human anatomy, led Scotland Vard officials lo bcliei'e al the lime 
Ihat Ihe murderer was a doclor. a theory Ihat holds io this day. 

lack the Ripper was never apprehended and this has caused 



■ amateurs and professionals alike to put in Iheir two cents 
spccutaline at&gt;oul the killer's idenlily. A number ol theories 
ealsi. Some nl Ihe most plausible ones allege involvement ol 
Britain s Royal Family. 

One theory involves Prince Albert V^clor, second in line to the 
throne, having been plaguod by s^'philis and eucting his revenge on 
each ol the proslilutcs who could have spread Ihe disease to him. 
Another variation ol Ihe same idea holds Ihal Prince Albert con- 
Iracted syphilis, bul thai he also fell in love with one of the prosti- 
lules and then married her. Together they had a child. Acconiing lo 
Ihe theory Ihe wedding was witnessed by sin friends ol the Prince's 
rol-so-pnfice&lt;.s-like bride. IVhen Ihe powers Ihal be found out, a 
campaign was launched lo rid the possibility of something damag- 
ing to Ihe Empire and Ihe Royal Family being rnadecommon know!' 
edge, lack Ihe Ripper Ihcn came lo life and rid London of her 
Highness, the harlot and her ladies- in- wailing. 

Another theor&gt;' involving "Ihe powers thai be." speculates 
involvement of Qiieen Victoria herself. Many simply settle with the 
Home Setietarv and Special Branch of Scotland Yard. Thai brings the 
question; "Who then was Jack Ihe Ripper?" 

If we settle on the theory that il was indeed Prince Albert eiact- 
ing his revenge, the answer is obvious. H Ihe theory about Ihe wed- 
and the illegitimate child is to be believed, Ihe prime suspect is 
""liam Gull, Ihen private physician lo C2ueon Victoria and the 
sponsible for attending to Prince Albert. Some speculate that 
Gull a physician who would have encellcnt knowledge oi human 
anatomy, also held a great sense of nationalistic pride, a nationalistic 
pride compelling him lo go to any lengths lo protect his queen. 

Al the end of those terror-filled months. Ihe murders suddenly 
stopped. No firm explanation has ever been reached, leading many 
to assume that an objective of some sort was finished. 

Those months are brought back to life in "From Hell," a film 
released by 20lh Century tax Friday, Oct. 19. Directed by The 
Hughes Brothers, the film slars Johruiy Depp, Robby Collraine and 
Heather Graham- 
Depp plays the real-life Scotland Yard Inspector Aberline. 
Depp's portrayal of Aberline involves the inspector having dream- 



Octobcr 24. 2001 



like predictions Ihal help him along his «leulhlul wav. 

His dreams are typically induced by opium or drinks mixed 
with laudanum, a Victorian pain killer with the potential to be poi- 
sonous. Opium dens were quite common in Victonan England and 
Depp's character smokes quite a few bowls ol the marijuana .ilter- 



dingandl 
SirWilliai 



the Etipper killings, as well as handling the politics o I Scotland Yanl's 
upper echelon. "There isn't much factual information available about 
Inspector Aberline. so any interpretation is valid when the charac- 
ter s story is told. Depp plays Ihe pari wonderfully 

Coltraine plays At&gt;erline's able-bodied sergeant and cohort in 
cnmc-solving capers. Colltaine's character ls cynical and al times 
the sarcastic foil is used for comic rcliel His role was impottanl 
because he was the tiller with which lo keep Aberline on a mentally 
even keel and remove him from drug-induced stupors. The comic 
relief provided by Coltraine was needed, otherwise the movie 
(vould have been much too depressing. Coltraine's liming and deliv- 
ery made for a nice counterbalance lo an incredibly serious and 
demented tale. 



impoverished East Enil of yet one more barrier lo longevity. In the 
film, she comes across with the greatest of gentility and beauty and 
makes for a great love interest lo Aberline. KcUy^ existence m the 
film and reality are two dilfcrenl paths. Wilhoul revealing too much 
of Ihe movie's plot, let's sulficv to say that what fate betel! Kelly in 
reality, is the opposite of her fate in Ine film. 

I had never heard of The Hughes Brothers before 1 saw "From 
Hell," but judging from what I saw, I wouldn't mind seeing more of 
their work, "From Hell," is a great myslery/horror film that thrilled 
me to Ihe edge of my seal. 

For ticket information, check cinema box offices as listed in the 
yellow pages. 



Dropkick Murphys 

The band visits Chicago as part of their 'Sing Loud, Sing Proud' tour 



By Jonah Cris 



e. Staff Write 



Punk rock from Boston found its way lo Chicago on Friday, Oct. 
19, when Ihe Dropkick Murphys played lo a sold-out audience at the 
Vic Theater, 

The Dropkick Murphys, an American mix of Irish pub songs. 
Irish traditionals and original songs of uniting under impossible cir- 
cumstances, found their way into the national punk circuit in 1998 
wilh their full-length debut album "Do or Die." 

Since Ihat time Ihey have had several line-up changes including 
a new lead singer after their first singer left the band lo pursue a 
career as a Boston firefighter 

"There are only Ihrec words that can describe this concert: Oi! 
Oi' Oi'," an enthusiastic fan said, exiting Ihe Vic after the show. 

The band was welcomed with a warm reception from the crowd 



and even had Ihe Emerald Society Chicago Police Bagpipes play 
such numbers as "God Bless America," during which Ihe greater 
part of the audience broke into song. Moments like this re-enforced 
Ihe feeling of unity during the concert. 

The Dropkick Murphys played a steady concert wilh few dis- 
tracting moments, which mainly occurred when one member would 
leave the stage and another would come from the offstage area to 
play for one song, only to switch back again. The concert would have 
been stronger if the band had found ways of integrating Iheir unique 
use of inslnimcnts such as the bagpipes and mandolin into every 
song. 

Also, Ihe concert lost energy when the band was playing their 
original material. Further compounding this problem was singer Al 
Barr's habit of slopping half-way through a song and letting bassist 
Ken Casey take over. 



However, the songs that seemed to have the most energy and 
even make the audience break inio cheers were the Dropkick 
Murphys' renditions of traditional Irish songs. 

Songs such as "Rocky Road to Dublin" and "The Wild Rover" 
gained a neiv element after being modernized by the band. Even the 
standard "Finncgan's Wake." sped up to the point where the lyrics 
were completely incomprehensible, had Ihe spirit Ihat the band 
seemed to have lost when performing their original matcriak 

This conceri was part ol the "Sing Loud, Sing Proud" lour sup- 
porting the Dropkick Murphys' new album. 

Many faru listed songs like "Which Side Arc You On?" and 
"Good Rats" with Irish singer and poet Shane MacGowan singing 
lead vocals wilh Barr. as their favorite tracks from the album. 




Features 



%, 



Impact Art 

By 

Chris 

Sutton 




("hilinc, (iMlures jn Jtlick- b\ Diimthy Ho on [he ■Hfrc k Nv\-. 
■iorl.' I'xhibil. The cihibil opttifd on Sept. 28 and (ealiin^s pa- 
turi* ot Ihc WTC iMgedv Ijfcen by twlh proli-ssionjl and ama* 
lent pholographcrs. Sim'e ol the pholos are visible on Ihc PDN 
ivcbsile: www:// pdn-pix.com/ 

E«hibil Curator Alice Rose George dwdcd nol to lisl pholog- 
raphcrs' names wilh ihepholos lo ensure Ihal Ihc cmolionalcon- 
(cnl o( the picluies outweigh Ihc noloriclv of Ihe pholographcrs. 
George Mid. "We're nol inlercsled in famous pholographcrs. 
AnybcKl)' who bore witness can come in wilh any pholograph." 

George said around 3,000 people a day visit the exhibil in 
Manhallan, Vicwcis may purchase copies o( pholos for sas each. 
All proceeds go lo Ihc Children's Aid Socicly. 

Pholo DLMricI News reports Ihal Ihe exhibit was scheduled lo 
IjsI through Oct, 28, but ovcr^vhclming public response has 
eticndcd Se c»hibilion through Nov. 4 and possibly longer. 

Pholo Dislricl News also features a behind-the-scenes look at 
press photographers stalioncd in Afghanistan. The feature is 
litlcd "Dispatches. News from the Front" and contairm Tirsl-hand 
accounts ol pholographcrs and photos ol Ihe photographers' 
plights in the war-ridden region. 

iDnc account is from Vincent Ijforet, photographi^r for The 
New York Times, who lecounls how he and anolhcr photogra- 
P"" 



Thcpolici-' 
ixmu^ lor u.&lt; ji 
thing I Itnoiv, 



* .villi ilu-NvJii-^ai 



■ .il.ip- rm* .itniss the t.Ke The guv K'hindB 
jnglini;mi- U.m 1 buMlhe " 

A Struggle ensin-d Tiw phnUii; rap hers sun-ived because \\ 
other press phulOKr.ipher. w -ilki-d in on the scene. A lull accatinl| 
ol Ihc story and photographs ol the incident are avaiU' 
PDN. 

Paula Bronslcin. a photographer lor Getty Images, oilers herB 
account ol alt press personnel being held inside a hotel m Quclliil 
lor over 12 hours after the bombing I'aids began. BtonsteinB 
explained in PDN how, when photographers were denied ihcW 
rinht lo oil Ihc hold after Lhe bombing stopped, thu press di.-ciil-| 
edio change Ihe game rules. "Anolhcr hour pas.wd and th.il i 
il, we jumped Ihc walls of Ihc holel compound wilh the polio 
yelling at us." 

Photo Dislricl News Online offers the conclusion I 
Btonslein's slory and accounts of other joumnlisis all 
www.//pdn-pii&gt;.coin/ news /dispatches Jit ml- I 

Even if a person docs nol want lo view topics related to thc| 
war on terrorism, Ihc PDN website offers a variety ol rw 
(or pholographcrs in general and is worth Ihc visil. 



Terrorism spurs literary interest 



y [onah Crismore, Stalf Wriler 

iinthra 



1 Nei' 



oik, Florida and 



Wilh lhe recent 
Washington, D.C. and images ol lhe Sepl. 11 altacks lingering 
television screen, there is no doubt Ihal the citizens of the United 
Sifllcs feel threatened and vulnerable lo terrorism. 

Nowhere is there more evidence of America s collective feeling 
o( being unsafe than in the nation's bestseller book lists. 

Stephen E. Ambio.sc's "Band ol Brothers." afler gaining 
momentum from the Steven Spielberg miniscries ba.«ed on the book, 
dropped Irom number one on the New York Times best seller list lo 
number three, "Band of Brothers" lost its position lo 'Taliban" by 
Ahmed Rashid. now number one. and "bin Laden: The Man Who 
Declared War on America" by Yossef Dodansky, now number two on 
lhe besLsellct list. 

"Taliban" gives a detailed accouni of the militant Islamic group 
that look over most ol Alghanislan in Ihe 1990s. The book tries to 
show Ihe effects nl Ihe regime on the people and how Ihey have 
changed Ihe lives oi Ihc people who live in Afehanistan, as well as 
provide the reader wilh a history of key individual members of Ihe 



ilib.in 



T. Uden The I 






. biog- 



rapher Bodansky's accouni of Ihe man who is now said lo be 
responsiWcfor the altacks on Ihe World Trade Cenlerand Pentagon. 
Bodansky speaks of bin Laden as a man who "lives with his lour 
wives and some 15 children in a small ci\c in eastern Afghanistan," 
The author goes on to say Ihal he believes bin Laden is "a principle 
player in a tangled and sinister web ol terrorism -sponsoring slates, 
intelligence chieltains and master terrorists." 

Bodaruky admits thai writing such a biography was diHicull 
since so little is known about bin Laden, He even questions the year 
of bin Laden's birth. In doing this, Bodansky makes the book a his- 
tory of the movemeni agairut the United States by Islamic funda- 
mentalisls and uses bin Laden as a prime example of how far some 
fundamcnlalisls are willing to lake Iheir cause. 

Book industry analysis said the sudden interest in Ihe Taliban 
and bin Laden was not unexpected, adding thai alter lhe Oklahoma 
Cily bombings, books about militia groups and their aclivilics were 
on oeslsellerlisis around the country 

Amazon books on the Inlemel has seen books such as "First 
Rcspondcr Chcm-Bio Handbook" and "Germs: Biological Weapons 
and America's Secret War" by judilh Miller, Stephen Eogelburg and 
William |. Broad outsell other nonliclion works. 



their use throughout history and attempt to explain how many Icr- 
rorisl groups may have been able to obtain the weapons. 

According to a representative o( a national book chain who 
requested to remain anonymous, the citizens of the United Slates are 
leeling nei\ous when il comes to preparation lor terrorisi attacks, as 
ivell as the current position of Ihe military in Afghanislon because 
the country docs nol know who Ihe enemv is He said the people of 
' ■ '- - nl lo knmv who Ihc enemy is and 



who Ihey should be t.ii 

Taliban and germ warl.ii 

However, peihap'. 



IV hy books on Ihc 

■ .veil. 

■ Heroes" by Marvel 

Comics, the same company i. I.n Ii.k .re.ilnJ liclional heroes such as 
Spiderman. Captain America and the Incredible Hulk, II is nol a 
book wilh a story of carelullv written words, but rather one with 
page-sixe illustrations depicting Ihe comic book heroes working 
alongside members of Ihe New York Police and Fire Department at 
the site of Ihc WTC attacks. All money earned from "Heroes" will be 
donated to the Twin Towers Fund, which is providing aid to Ihe 
families ol firefighters, police ollicers and other uniformed person- 
nel who died durinfi the attacks on the WTC. 



IIii GmumiDlciur lo ini Bik 
wmsmmm t*ud vtfUwstU 




Find 

buried 

treasure 

in your 

basement 



O.BONBS 



PBlSlBlBlBlBlBlBlBliJlK^lBlSlBlBlBlalBlKlElKlBlBlBg 




Why is Cooperative 
Education good 
business for YOU? 



♦ You earn competitive wages and may earn academic credit! 

♦ You test classroom theory in an employment settingi 

♦ You earn higher starting salaries after graduation! 

♦ You estabiish vaiuable future references! 

♦ You create realistic career expectations! 



If you are an ETCS, BMS, or A&amp;S student with a 2.5 GPA and have completed 
your freshman requirements, you may be eligible for Co^)p! 



IPFW CO-OP 481-6939 www.ipfw.edu/co-op Neff337 



]]BlBlBlBlg[SlK lBlBlBlBliJl5 ElBlBlBlBlBKl]|K3lElBlBB 






Classhteds 



visllThe Communicator on the web: www.sitmei 



SpriDg Break Vacations! 

Qjtumjs. Jt Floriila, Book Early &amp; gel free m 

Earn cjih &amp; Go FREE' 
^ hinnc Campus Reps 1-800-134-7007 
» mi.cndlemuinmcnniin.com 



Your Ad HERE 

for only 

S7 per issue!! 




Your Ad HERE 

for only 

S7 per issue!! 



LookinB in tarn mooty for jou. 

oreantuiion nr ynuniin 

TlJ Fund -U. 1 no (ml fundiaiiin 

pm^nm ihji'i cai&gt; jnd rcluhie 

Call l-MS-lg-fTJMJ-U "r Villi 

iruTTifDnd-u.tom 




Fralcrnlies • Sororities • Clubs • Student Groups 

EainSt,OIX)-SI.01Xlthi!Kmener mlh lhe cai) Campusfundiaim com iMcc 
our fundramng cwni Do« not Iniolit crtdli card ippllciIJani. Furdniiif 

(8SB|«33-31,i8orii!ii »»!■ rjmpmfunilrju fr.cnm 



SPRING BREAK PARTYI 

Indulge In FREE Travel, Diinhs, Food, and Parties with ttic 



1443 are-mall s 



idgerton's 



your Student Trove/ Service 
Design Your Oiim Vocotiwi. 
VStudwit ^irturi 



Vlntemalionol Student Identity Cord 
■.HoJtelling IntenMtionol 
er Jnin A firoupl 



jr Puerto Vdiloi^al 



1-800-643-4604 



.' Spring Breflli m Concui oi 

.' Club Med 

■,■ Contik. Vocmionj for 18-35 yeor oldl 

.' Much, much morel 

www, edgerlonsf ravel, ei 



Monologues' 
to be delayed 
until 2002 



News 

I'T Ociobcr 24, 2001 

Purdue computer security expert speaks before congress 



i«l Will 



■5ily c 



^pule. 



unly 



btyori'J ttie cotittol 



The Vasinj Monologi 
1)f removed Irom Ihr currrni 
itMon 4nd postponed until s 
la tor dale. 

Student director Belsy 
Breitcnbach will inftead be 
directing The Color of, 
Aiigutl' by Palomd Pednro,' 
irsiulaied bv Phyllia Zailln, 
which will open Mjrch 29 and' 
run through April 6. 2002. 

The irFW depatlmcnt of 
theatre is ri-slritled from pre-i 

Monologues,' by Eve Ensler at 
this lime bcciuse The Am 
Group. »ri indepenc 
and llii'attitral prodiii 
manngemcnl group 
York City, is preparing U 
Ihc pl.iy on a lour '' 
Unlled Sl,1tes after the 
the year. 

'The IPFW dcpanmi^ 
theatre will be putting' 
Vagina Monologues' bac„ .„ 
the $C3)on schedule For 2002-01 
or 2t)I)3-04 as soon as, 
Orainallsts PUv Service maLcfi, 
the rights available again," 
said Lorry L. Life, chair andl 
arllsllc director of the theatrd 
department. 

'The Color of August' Is a. 
play about two women that| 
wa* wiillcn by one of Spain's' 
leading contemporary female 
plnywrighis. I 

'The Color of August' la aii 
explotalion of the tetationshid 
between two women, artworkl 
and their relaiion.ship with the 



i-ipeft Eugene Spaflord 
lied before a congressional 
commiltee Wed., Oct. 10 about 
issues needed Id secure intor- 
malion from threats of lerror- 

Spaflord was part ol a panel 



Science Committee. 

'VVc cannot hope to prolect 
our mlormation infrastructure 
without a sustained commit- 
ment to research and Ihe 
development of new enperls," 
Spatford said. 

"The incredible growth of 
our society's deployment of 
computing has loo often been 



safely, security and reliability. 
Security cannot be easily or 
ly added on a'ller- 
and this grcalty- 
plicalcs our o«erJll miV 



the™ac 



Spatford told coi 
members the number ot ii 
dents ol malicious soltwi 
system attacks and cybercri 
more than doubling 



ittee 






often designed by individuals 
with little or no security train- 
ing and is poorly tested,' he 

lis is bcmg added to Ihe 
fault-ridden infrastructure 
already in place and operated 
by personnel with m-sufficicnl 



ments and v 
loci 



I the t 



Spallord. professor of com- 

Puler sciences and director ol 
urdue'sCcnter lor Education 
and Research in Information 
Assurance and Security, spoke 
on bchall oi the Association 
for Computing Machinery's 
Committee on U.S. Public 
Policy 



Community, from p. 1 



rending oi the Iruc the tragedy," he said. 

lu'iining o( Islam." Chancellor Wartcll spoke 

■ Wetanalsoconlinuolopray only bricHy at Ihe rally. During 

ind keep in mind Ihe viclims of his speech he reaffirmed IPRV's 



Levy, from p. 1 







She 



explained that' 
Si'miltsm likely came from how 
she was treated by her first hus- 
band, Guslave's friends, who 
were all lewish men who 
Ihoughl little of the 19'ycar-old 
and quL'stioned Guslave's rea- 
marrying someone .so 
young. 

erlcd to Catholicism so 
hf could conduct a symphony. 
Levy said. Levy said Guslave 
himself eventually even made 
,inii-Semillc remarks. 

Anthrax, from p. 1 

Cifito should not become a 
&gt;t.ircily because its manufactur- 
uT has tripled production. 
Treatment with Cipro requires a 
iiO-day regimen, but one dLsad- 
lanlnRe it that a two month sup- 



Thc film was made on loca- 
tion in Vienna. Levy, who trav- 
eled lo Ihe city to work on Ihe 
set. said it was a warm and 
friendly place filled with artists 
and intellectuals. Outside 
Wenna, however, anti-Semitism 
pant.' she said. 



"You c. 



&lt; feel it 



nihe. 



this day you can feel the oppres- 



stance and its open door policy. 

-IPFW stands for Ihe kind ol 

diversity America stands for," 



Lourdes, France. 

Critics in a number of major 
American newspapers including 
the LA. and New York Times 
initially panned 'Bride of the 
Wind-' 

Levy said she thought critics 
and moviegoers eipccled Ihe 
film to be a big-budget picture, 
which il was not. The film was 
shot lorSin million dollars, con- 
sidered by some lo be a paltry 



« 



Visii The Communicator on (he web: 
wvw.sludcnt.lpfw.cd uMlupnper 

Read past issues • Special conttnl not 
found m printed iS5Ucs 



1 spend on a lilm s pro- 



duction. Levy said everyone 
who worked on the film, includ- 
ing leading actors Jonathan 
Pryce and Sarah Wyntcr. all look 
less pay than they normally 
ivould to work on Ihe film. Levy 
said everyone who worked on it 
believed in the film enough to 
lake pay cuts. She said that 
despite critics' poor ratings ol 
Ihe film, aucficnces at its 
advance screenings were enthu- 
siastic about it. 

Harriet Miller, a music stu- 
dent at IPFW and longtime 
friend of lj!vy, said she cncour 



aged the writer lo come to Fort 
Wayne and talkduring the week 
that 'Dride ol Ihe Wmd' was to 
play in the city 

'I thought il was a great 
opportunity lor students to 
come and sec a screenwriter and 
listen to what she h.id to say 
about Ihe profession." Miller 

She added tfiat she thought 
students could Icam from some- 
one wilh as much diversity and 
experience as Levy has 



; Alumni, from p. 1 



"Our indc* ol suspicion is so 
high, il you would have come 
down with anthrax a month ago 
and gone to Ihe emergency 
room, they wouldn't have been 
looking lor it, and now Ihey 
are, ■EncL-on said. 



Pedre 



d Jealousy, 
modern Spanish 



imagery to tell the story oil 
where these two women nave 
been and where their love-hate 
relationship is heading. I 

'The Color of AurusII 
begins at 8 p.m. on March 2* 
and 30 and April i. S and 6 in 
StudjLo Theatre in Kettler Hall. 



Please recycle 
this newspaper 



has "tremendous growth polcn- 

The sale of the bricks beganin 
Gel. of 1999. Originally the 
bricks sveie sold lor S20 each. 
Alumni can still purchase 
bricks, however, the price has 
increased lo S50 each. 

The design ol Ihe monument 
came from several different 
sounres including Ihe ofricc ol 
development. Alumni Relations, 
Physical Plant, and community 
members Dick and Beth 



Warlell said employees ol 
IPFWs Physical Plant conslnicl- 
cd the monument and laid the 
bric)«. 

He thanked them lor their 
erforts, adding that the workers 
had lo take the time to trim one- 
eighth ol an inch olf each brick 
because ol sife limitations of the 

'The monument is located on 
Ihe lar south edge ol campus, 
bordering Coliseum Boulevard. 

The monumenl lealures a 
large IPFW sign and an oval- 



shaped brick walkway. 

The walkway Is divided into 
several sections. Five sections 
arc set aside for IPFW Alumni, 
who graduated In the past five 
decades, 

Rulfolo said one seclion is 
dedicated lo memorializing 
friends of the universily, 

At the end of the ceremony, 
Mayor Richards proclaimed the 
day "IPFW Day.'' 

Bosk and othurs thun cut and 
released an \-shaped lormallon 
of blue and white batlooru. 







mFckK^2i&lt;!W!^K 



Admission for All Ages: 

Haunted Castle: $8.00 Slack Forest. $8.00 Pharaoh's Revenge: $8.00 
3-PAC Pass For All Three Admissions: $17.00 

I $4 OFF I 

■ The Regular Price Of The 3-Pac Ticket ; 

: With This Coupon For Everyone In Voup Sroupl i 
•IPFW -- HAUNTED CASTLE COUPONS NEVER EXPIREI: 



Scares Open Every Wedncsdoy. Thursday, &amp; Sunday Night: 7;00 P.M. to 9;00 P.M. 

Open Every Friday and Saturday Night: 7i00 P M. to 11:00 P.M. 
Open Monday, Tuesday &amp; Wednesday of Halloween Week: 7:00 P.M. To 9:(D0 P.M. 

Wollen at Old Auburn Rood, at the North Edge of Fort Wayne, Toke Clinton St. north from 

Compus just one mile (watch far Roofs Comp &amp; Ski) to the Auburn Road Stop Light, then left 

one mile to the Castle, or take 1-69 - Exit 116, west one niilc to Auburn fiood, then South 

four blocks to the HAUNTED CASTLE. 



I CAU: 4B9-1763 FOR FURTHER INFOi | 

&gt; Ifif A map: www.hauntedcastle.com 

"^^^ " ^^ www.HauntedAmerica.com 

'f^nf^i&amp;i Or ica-On-Line, keyword: Halloween 

sponsored For 22 Years By The SL Vincent Scouts. 




