
George Bush 

Strengths, weaknesses discussed/Page 2 



Peace studies 

New program established at IPFW /Page 3 



Cross country 

IPFW hosts conference championships/Page 4 



The Communicator 



i University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne 



October 26, 1989 



Quote of the week 



"Since the Supreme Court's Webster deci- 
sion in July, student outrage has exploded. 
Our phones have been ringing off the hook, 
with students all over the country asking, 
•What can I.do?' " — Sheri O'Dell 

—NOW mobilization director 
—Page 1 



Wartzok receives research grant, contract 



-INFOGRAPHS- 

DASEL to present Cannon 

Disabled Students Excelling in Leadership (DASEL) will present a 
forum featuring Dennis Cannon, chair and associate professor of psy- 
chology, as part of their first r 



PIT holds Halloween sale 
Forum airs teleconference 

"Fundamentally Speaking: Catholic Views on Campus," is a two- 

Nov. 2, at 8 p.m. in Classroom Medical Room 159. The first program in 
t.hii htiw will be "Which Came First, the Bible or the Church ' This 
live, interactive teleconference will be Lin expose on Biblical Fun 

Forum and Campus Ministry, 

Seiler to discuss Germany 

On Monday, the International Student Organization will present the 
second lecture in their Faculty Lecture Series. Christiane Seiler, asso- 

i ,i Union Room G21. Free refresh- 

ments will be provided after the lecture. The presentation is free and 

War veterans share insights 

A panel discussion between Soviet soldiers who fought in the war 

day at 8 p.m. in Kettler Hall Room G46. The program, titled "Bridging 
u.l,i„ enter on what it 

homeland. The discussion is tree and open to the public. 

Skelton to lecture on space 

liversary Odyssey Series 

the past and future of A 
) the educational system 



Former governor to speak 

Otis Bowen, former governor of Indiana and past U " 
Health and Human Services, will give two one-hour ( 



Committee asks for opinions 



t draft. Copies of the f 



Communicator seeks writers 



■ Ktlll -. ,&lt;H hid ■ 




Wartzok enjoys his w.irr. 



IU report 

Changes in personnel 
approved for IPFW 



NOW sponsors rally 



nijs ' Marjorie Souers, s 



itical Science t " s ™ V ^'Z^llis 
Smulkstys, associate p 



"Since the Supreme Court's 



: dying. Students t 



Wral. \... d :\U,r (or Aca- Stephen Harroff, a^.r..,r, pf.^v 

demie Affairs lor the period ol Julv I. ,l! ' ■'■■"'"■&lt;i&lt;" ; -"'^&gt;.&lt;r.' '■ ■ ■ .'■■■■mi 

i , [,,. s . sjbbiiiic;.!, which was originally j 



i Craig, assistant professor monetary allocations given i 



NOW mobilization 111 ictoi 



Sf^^ta^** Dutch students 

JfgpES Visitors researching 
^^3Hp 3g2pess£ public administration 
Follett's gets new look 



y MARLENE VODER wm inc i ude 

Surf Writer carpeting t 

&gt; Nov. 1, students going to fixtures. 



Dutch students. This students a 



Opinion 

P«t2 

Presidential blunders 

The Bush administration 
pilots a sinking ship 

George Bush's strategy during his Soviet Union and the East Bloc 
campaign consisted of wrapping him- Challenged by an unprecedei 
self in an American flaR and spouting portunity to negate the 
patriotic homilies while artfully side- 20,0()() nuclear missiles, ousn 
stepping relevant issues. His was a chosen to hide his head in the sane 
campaign that cultivated emotional Meanwhile, the Pentagon arms 
rather than intellectual appeal— a up continues to roll bl 4 ' u "'" 
slickly packaged affair, loaded with ting out $65 millic 
symbols that tugged at the heart bombers costing $535 million each, and 
strings of voters in an effort to pull the a four billion dollar Star Wars pro- 
blinds shut on their brains. gram. These projects, piled atop the 

The living embodiment of Bush's res t f the Pentagon's voracious bud- 
cynical campaign approach was Dan ge tary requirements, are propelling the 
Quayle— a handsome product with national debt into the stratosphere. We 
bright teeth, fresh breath, and a thick are bankrupting our children's future 
shock of hair lopping an empty head u , pay for arms w hich we may not need 

The selection of Quayle as his run to produce Their future depends upon 

ning mate was so glaring an indicator whelher George B ush wakes up and 

of the Bush campaigns hollow facade, pursu( . s meaningful, mutually veri- 

that for a brief ,■!,.. m, ■ ,. .,i ,( fjab}e arms Cl)t . backs with the Soviet 

,i|,p:.. ;.&lt; (I lh,,i In &lt; !i . [&lt;&gt;: ,il. ii;.hI i'imv.o |i nl(1 . 

wise to the manipulate™ which Bush B ^, sideklck „ , our (ormer 

employed. But aced with the alter- nol|ona| dsman ' who kepl lne 

i" ,l„ ™°" shores of Indiana guarded during the 

3ShJSSSUSSttPSi?ffS asa S? war'nT™"^ spewin6 

dent whose methods in public o/fice ore ShToScelveTtol 
consistent with those lie used to gel ^ \ , , , 

&amp;■ isAfiSA rs&amp;&amp; r z e z i , mp ^ ena h , , ed ?v, rapist ' s - e 

tefiigenlly dealing with these problems, gal v.cbms of sexual assauts 

the Bush regiin.' li,,-. , hu-.-n I., iliv.-rt nr0 « d mares lor their atlacKers is 

the public's attention and the energies harmonious with the 

he XS fiT* inSUbSta "' i '" &lt;"*" would alfow MedVaTd-tunded abortions 

The most notable ol these ploys was 1° poor women who are impregnated 

the recent tailed attempt to acquire a through rape or incest. Welcome to the 

lihiu,,.,,! .um [Him, hi 10 ban flag "kinder, gentler America." 

I, &gt;&lt;i 1 an effort which trivialized A ' P res J efl r t ;. lhe American ship of 

ll„. i,,„„.i u,„ ,■ ,.l Hi.- I onstnulion ami stole is drifting in dangeiou- li... • 

i.n.r,l II.,- |„, -i,t.-,,r- ,™„- ,,[ a,„i Hi inn v 1,11 ' 

priorities colorful symbolic gestures ol bilge water As the man behind the 

over meaningful action helm. Bush bears the responsibility of 

Other problems faced by the Bush keeping our ship from foundering. He 
administration include lhe drug plague should be more concerned with the 
and the national decline in education holes ip the hull and the fair- 
standards. These problems have re- ness and directness of the course which 
ceived tough-sounding words and Band- he is steering, rather than fretting 
Aid solutions about the flag on the mast. 

IVihap- Hi, i„„-.l dislresMiig ol lhe And first male Quayle ought to be 

Bush adminislra, ,,,.„lc.|u,„ les is demoted to a position that is more 

its response to the process of demo- compatible with his knowledge and 

,,,,!„ transformation occuring in the ability, such as third-class deck swab. 

Alternate View 

Bush treated Noriega right 

New evidence has surfaced on the cost ol waiting for another opportunity 

failed ousting ol Panamanian dii.-lat.ir lo nab the Panamanian general. 

Manuel Noriega We now have been In dealing with the Panamanian sit 

told that the Bush administration felt uation the way he did Bush has given 

thai in aiding the rrlu'is, we would be us a taste of the way he will deal with 

.iM.fi.o-- in assac-Minitm,'. linn MurdmiiR light situations. Bush is going to be a 

a world leader is in clear violation of more passive and thoughtful leader 

United Stales' foreign policy. Bush and than the emotional and absent-minded 

Ins ,id\i..ors clearly made a wist' choice Ronald Reagan. 

in standing aside in this situation. Bush has shown that he is a man of 

George Bush is making a point with action with his interest in the drug war 
the lack of action from his office in Ihis and with his involvement in most of the 
instance. Bush is interested is staying issues facing the nation today. Bush is 
within the confines of the Constitution a strong leader but may be too inter- 
where use of his power is concerned, ested in his own popularity. He needs to 
Former presidents Nixon and Kennedy remember that he's already in office 
stepped well beyond the lines drawn by and that he can remain there even if he 
the Constitution and by Congress in the makes decisions that lower him in the 
form of national laws and policies. polls. 

If John F. Kennedy was faced with Most of the Bush administration 

the Noriega situation, he might have choices thus far have been prudent. He 

gone as far as sen. loir ,t Mafia hit man may take this prudence to a passive 

to Panama to take out the general, extreme but this is a much better ac- 

Richard Nixon would have thought tion than taking his power behind the 

nothing of deceiving the American law. Hopefully, Bush can continue in 

people if it would have been the end of his thoughtful and concerned manner of 

the problem. Bush knows all about the decision making and leave behind the 

trouble presidents can get into if they interest in popularity With his choice 

try to deceive the American people He to let Noriega live, Bush has made a 

The Communicator 

Lon Bishop . ; * ' ". * * '. ". " '. V. V. * " ' * 1 * * " * ' " ' " " ! * '. 1 ' '. '. ' 1 ^ Editor in Chiel 

Jeff Bmruson Features Editor 

Marci Copsey Copy Editor 

Litlianbyon Advertising Manager 

Ir.di.r . P„rdoe Slu'jYiV N..-« -|&gt;j;ht- In ., •■■.' :.-. puji-i ..-, c,i,..|„ r iM...rp.jr.;li-&lt;1 in (In 
Opinion expressed in The Communicator is thai of the wnter. or in lhe case of unsigned 

The editorial and business old..- nl Tin- 1 ..n&gt;muni&lt; ah r .■■-. .... ,i,d in Suite 215 of the 
Walb Memorial i r.-.-i:. h dun t ii.htmU I'u'dLf I inn^.lt .,• f,„: W.,vin- -UH (uiLseum 
Blvd E . Fort Wayne. Ind 46805 The Connnonn ..(..- • .■d.1,,1 .,, phor.e number is 481-6584. 

The Commuim.ii.-r .m 1. ..n . ■ i.i'.n- 1., in. .ij.v.r All letters should be concise. The 
editorial board reserves the right '.1 &lt;dd ...1 l.-'irr- loi bnv.iy .md .'.jriu .,r.d :.. reject 
Uiose letters it fe^lv are objectionable Each letter must contain the writer's name, 

l.-to-r n ■.'.!!! t .'. lOiM-i.-i .&gt;nl&gt; oj,&lt;1it .■..ii-.-&lt;..n!m lt \ on um.-.t.nu .-s All letters must be 
typed double spaced, or clearly printed, on one side of the paper only Deadline for letters is 

Letters Policy 

Every week The Communicator reserves space on this page for letters to the 
editor. Your views are welcome. 

Preference will be given to letters addressing matters of direct concern to 
IPFW. If necessary. letters will be edited. 

Letters must include the author's name, signature, address and telephone 
number. Only the author's name will be published with the letter. Names will be 
withheld only for extraordinary reasons. The deadline for letters to the editor is 
Monday noon of the week of publication. 

The editorial board reserves the right to reject those letters it feels are 
defamatory. 

Letters should be sent to The Communicator office, Walb Memorial Union Suite 
215, or mailed to The Communicator, Walb Memorial Union Suite 21f, im 
Coliseum Blvd. E., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805. 



The Communicator 




Holiday Commercialism 

Grab your wallet and soap, it's Halloween 



nil- :. ih, kind 




Features 



The Communicator 



New program 

IPFW receives 
'89 Peace Award 



By JANHANLEY 




Sports 



The Communicator 



Cross country hosts conference meet 



ired the GLVC 








Th Oct. 26 


F 27 

Women's Vollayball 


S 28 

Wotnen'i Vollovboll 

al BeHormine GIVC duMar 


S 29 


M 30 


T 31 
Women's Volleyball 


W Nov. 1 

GLVC Bill round 



WINTER PARK, CO 




SPORTS \\ AMERICA 



YOUR SKI TRIP INCLUDES: 

■ 4 NIGHTS LODGING 

• 4 DAYS SKIING AT W 

• SHUTTLES TO AND FROM THE MOUNTAINS AND EVENTS! 

• SOUVENIR T-SHIRTl • FREE NEVER-EVER LESSONS! 

• WELCOME PARTY! • BREAKFAST ON THE 

• NASTAR RACE! • MOUNTAIN PICNIC! 

• APRES SKI PARTYI • PIZZA PARTY! 

• SCAVENGER HUNT! • FRASER FUN NIGHT 

PONT MISS ALL THE SNOW!! SIGN UP TODAY!! 



FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: Scon Dinius 




Sponsored by Student Acti' 




