basketball team remains undefeated page 7 



The Communicator 



VOL. XXIII, ISSUE 14 



Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne 



December 12, 1991 



Legend of Santa Clous 
originated in 4th century 



By Tina Holston 
Editor In Chief 

Every year a) this lime small children 
wait in line at Ihe mall to sit on Itie lap 
of iolly, old Santa Claus and tell him 
what gilts they want for Chiistmas; 
meanwhile the bigger kids stand back 
and laugh because Ihey know there is 
no such thing as Sania. What those 
children, and many adulls, don't realize 
is that the legendary American tigure 
who Iradhionally brings gifts 10 children 
at Chfislmas harks back 10 a historical 
parson. Saint Nicholas, who was a 
fourth-cenlury bishop of Myra in what 
Is now Turkey. 

Little is known about the life of Sairit 
Nicholas, bul according to the Ency- 
clopedia Americana. 'He was elected 
bishop while slill a very young man. 
He secretly provided three bags of 
gold as the dowry for three sisters, 
the daughters of an impoverished 
merchant, saving tham from shame 
and siavery.' 

One of Ihe bags of gold, which he 
tossed through a window al night, hap- 
pened to fall into a slocking hung by 
the chimney to dry. The custom of 
hanging Christmas stockings is said by 
some to have originated in this way. 

He was a very popular saint among 
Eastern Christians, says the Ameri- 
cana, and his cuh was introduced into 
Germany by Ihe Byzantine princess 
Theophano. It spread to England, 
where some 400 churches were dedi- 
cated lo him. "In the west, SainI 
Nicholas became known as the patron 
sainI of children, apparently through 
some lancrful elaborations ol his kind- 
ness to Ihe three sisters.' 

The custom of giving gifts on a spe- 
cial day in winter was "practiced betore 
Chrlsltanriy was founded, according to 
the World Book Encyclopedia. "But 
after Christianity was well established, 
Saint Nicholas became a symbol of the 
custom among Christians." 

During the Reformation of Ihe 1500s, 
Pfotestants substituted nonreligious 
characters for Saini Nicholas. In Eng- 
land, says World Book, the saint was 
replaced by a gentleman called Falher 
Christmas. This character was called 
P6re NoSI in France and Wethnachts- 
mann in Germany. 

The people of Ihe Netherlands were 
especially fond of SainI Nk:holas. The 
lirsl Dutch settlers who came to Ameri- 
ca had a figure of Salni Nicholas on 



Ihe front ol iheir ship, says the World 
Book Encyclopedia. The Dulch set- 
tlers, il says, maintained their custom 
of celebrating the satnl's feast day on 
Dec. 6. 

They told Iheir children that Iha sair\t 
visited Iheir homes and left gifts lor Ihe 
children on Saint Nicholas Eve. In 
time, English settlers adopted the leg- 
ends and lestivities associated with 
Saint Nicholas. 

"English-speaking children spoke lha 
Dutch name lor the sainI, Sinlerklaas, 
quickly and encHedly so that it sounded 
like Santy Claus or SanIa Glaus. 
Eventually, Santa Claus became the 
most commonly used name and was 
gradually associated with Christmas. 

Unlil the ie00s, people pictured SainI 
Nicholas as a lall. thin, stalely man 
who wore bishop's robes and rode a 
white horse. In 1809, Ihe American 
author Washington Irving, probably 
influenced by the dutch origins, 
described Saint Nicholas in his 
"Knickerboc*&lt;er's History ol New York,' 
as a rotund, jolly figure, wearing a 
wide-brimmsd hat and smoking a long- 
stemmed pipe. 

The current popular image of Santa 
Claus owes much to Clement C. 
Moore's poem. "A Visit from St. 
Nicholas," in 1823. Moore calls his 
Saint Nicholas "a right jolly old elf," 
and the diminutive size and super- 
natural powers of elves are displayed 
in coming down the chimneys and 
bringing presents to all, says Collier's 
Encyclopedia 

*ll was Moore who added the rein- 
deer a-nd sleigh. Ihe twinkling eye, and 
the 'laying a finger aside his nose'; and 
the saint's visit lakes place on Christ- 
mas Eve." ^ ~~ 

Thomas Nast, a political cartoonist, 
completed Ihe popular picluie of SanIa 
Claus, in a cartoon in Harper]s Illustrat- 
ed Weekly in 1663. The broad- 
brimmed hal became a lurry cap and 
Santa developed a white beard in 
Nasl's illustraik&gt;ns. 

Today, people in many parts of the 
world are familiar with Ihe legend ol 
SainI Nick; but he is primarily an Amer- 
ican Iradilion. People in both North 
and South America celebrate Christ- 
mas wrih Saint Nicholas bringing gifts 
10 children. People in most countries 
have adopted other imaginary charac- 
ters who supposedly bring gifts on a 
See page 6 Salnl Nick 



Lafayette was liberal hero 
says professor' 



book 



He could be called one of the most 
famous advocates ol human rights 
and freedoms in world history. Ameri- 
cans cal him a hero; the French call 
him a Itaiior, One thing has become 
abundantly clear, however; that Gen- 
eral Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roch 
Gilbeil Du Molier (marquis de) 
Lafayette was 3 leader in liberal 
thought throughout the world in Ihe 
leth and 19th centuries. 

"The whole hislory of early liberalism 
has lo be re-thoughl. especially as 
communism Is dying in eastern 
Europe. All the issues ol governmeni 
and freedom Ihat those people are 
wrestling with now were Ihe same in 
Lafayette's day." said Sylvia E. Neely, 
associate professor of history. 

In Neely's new book, a 10-year peri- 
od in Lafayette's lile is explored in 
depth tor the first time, revealing his 
role in revolutions and the fighl for 
rights throughout Ihe world--including 
struggles in Italy, Spain, Portugal and 
Greece. Because of his courageous, 
public support of human rights, many 
revolutionaries sought him out to aid 
their eltorls. 'Lafayette and the Liber- 
al Ideal, 1814-1824: Politics and Con- 
spiracy in an Age ol Reaction" was 
published in Octobar 1991 by soulh- 
ern Illinois University Press. 

'Lafayette was convinced Ihat Ihe 
liberal ideals derived from Ihe Enlighl- 
enment and from his personal mentor, 
George Washington, would prevail," 
quotes the book lacket. 

Neely began ihe book around 1976. 
when she was doing graduate work in 
French hislory. By 1980. when she 
earned a doaorate In history from the 
University ol Notre Dame, she was 
firmly entrenched in the research that 
lad her lo lilsraries Ihroughout the Unit- 
ed Stales and Europe. 



'He's really considered more of an 
American hero," Neely said, *We 
have so many places in the United 
Slates named after him. His vision ol 
whal America represented is a theme 
Ihroughout Ihe book," 

Lafayette was encouraged by the 
fact that the American Revolution had 
nol led to disorder, but rather, to 
democracy. His American connec- 
tions are grounded in the American 
Revolution, which he entered at Ihe 
age of 19 and served in Ihe continen- 
tal Army from 1777 to 1781. Afterthe 
war, Lafayetie became enamored ol 
the new American government, idol- 
ized George Washington (he named 
his only son after him), and became 
close friends with Thomas Jefferson 
and James Monroe. In 1924, ho visit- 
ed the United Slates as a guest of the 
governmeni and was greeted with 
cheers wherever he went. 

Back in his native France, Lafayette 
worked to incorporate some of the 
same governmental ideas into Ihe 
existing monarchial structure. In 
1789, he introduced the first drafl of a 
'OeclaralJon ol the Rights of Man and 
Citizen " He took a moderate political 
stance, advocating a form ol constitu- 
tional monarchy. As the gull between 
monarchists and revolutionaries 
widened, however, he was soon 
denounced by both groups as a politi- 
cal enemy. He had lo flee Ihe country 
when the king was toppled, and spent 
five years captive in Austrian prisons. 
He returned lo France as Napoleon 
was coming lo power. 

Neely's book fills a gap in existing 
scholarship about Lafayette. In her 
introduction she writes, "Because so 
few reliable works have been repro- 
duced alxjul his lile. even serious and 
See page 6 Lafayette 




The Image ol jolly, old SainI Nicholas Is the outgrowth ol several 
contrles' traditions which melded here In the United Slates In the 19th 
century (See story left). 

Photo by Mark Daley 



Lithuanian native tells of 
independence struggle 



By Sarah Jakacky 
Slaff Writer 

Lithuanian native Julius Smulkstys is 
now convinced that CNN news is seen 
everywhere, he said in the tirsi ol a 
three-part faculty lecture series lasl 
week. His lecture centered on Lithua- 
nian and Eastern Europe spanning 
from the beginnings of the indepen- 
dence movement Ihrough present day. 
Even when many of Ihe Lithuanian 
television and press towers were under 
Soviet conlrol, CNN constantly kepi 
broadcasts up to date. This he says, 
shows the importance of the event that 
took place. 

Smulkstys moved to the United 
Stales in 1949 with his parents. Since 
World War 11, he has voyaged back 10 
his homeland lour limes. His first trip 
was in 1953, then in 1983, again in 
1968, and his most recent trip was lasl 

In his lecture, Smulkstys presented 
the issue ol Lithuanian independence 
in chronological order starling in 
December 1989. That year Ihe Lithua- 
nian Parliament, under the old system, 
voted to remove Article 6, which gave 
the CommunisI Parly a monopoly ol 
power. "This was upsetting lo Gor- 



bachev." he said. 

New candidates were selected who 
favored independence and "who would 
not be swayed or change Iheir minds.' 
After the election ol new government 
officials, Smulkstys said that Lithuania 
"dflclarad Ihe re-eslablishment ol inde- 
pendence, bul they were still officially a 
part ol Ihe Soviet Union." 

The second important event that look 
place, according 10 Smulkstys, was 
Gorb)acheVs visit to Lithuanian. "II was 
the lirsl time a ruling-parly leader wont 
to Lithuania while in office.' He added 
that Ihis momentous eveni accompa- 
nied Ihe national removal of Article 6. 

Within Ihe same lime frame, Smulk- 
stys said Ihat Lithuania declared their 
Independence. Lithuanian television 
was seized and he says that virtually 
Ihe only inlormalion available was from 
CNN broadcasts. 

In February 1990, there was another 
election. However, Smulkstys said that 
'the only issue was independenca. 
There was The Movement For Recon- 
struction and Ihe Communist Parly of 
Lithuania separated from the Commu- 
nisI Parly ol the Soviet Union.* He 
See page 6 Lithuania 



Hearing held; senators 
cleared of all charges 



By Jim Walker 
Managing Editor 

Charges against six members of 
IPFWs student governmeni were dis- 
missed last week after Marian Adair, 
dean of students, ruled Ihe charges 
insubstantial. 

Student body president Krislina Fra- 
zier-Henry, vice president John 
Weisenburger, and senators Scoll 
Beineke. Victoria Vincent, Katie Grotri- 
an and Mike Will were all charged wilh 
violations of the IPFW Code ol Student 
Rights, Responsibilities and Conduct. 
The charges were filed by Mark Sny- 
der, Nancy Barger and Sally Green — 
the senators now facing impeachment, 

Beineke, Vincent, Grotrian and Will 
all sen/e on Ihe internal affairs commil- 
tee that has pushed for Ihe impeach- 
ment of Snyder. Barger and Green. 

The charges against the six govern- 
ment members included dishonest 
conduct, unauthorized taking or pos- 
session of IPFW property or services, 
harassment, hazing, physical abuse 
and several other rules violations. 

Weisenburger said Adair's ruling 
was correcl. "Marian said the 
charges had no substance and she 
dismissed all of it. It's clear to me thai 



there wasn'l ever a foundation for the 
claims in Ihe first place." 

Weisenburger said Snyder, Barger 
and Green's claims of age discrimina- 
tk)n were ridiculous. 'Just look al the 
siudenl government. We have a great 
cross section of members of different 
ages and races.* 

Their rights aren't being violated," 
Weisenburger said of the threa. 
■They are only being charged wilh 
what they did." 

If anyone's rights were violated. It 
was the six government members 
brought to trial last week, according lo 
Weisenburger. "Our rights were 
neglected because we weren't given 
the specification ol our charges. Bul 
we went ahead and defended our- 
selves," he said. 

Weisenburger said Adair's ruling will 
help with the government's case 
againsi Snyder, Barger and Greon. 
This will delinitely strengthen the case 
against them. It really hurts Iheir 
defense," said Weisenburger. 

The impeachment trial has been 
pushed back from the original Dec. 15 
date. Student government's judicial 
court is expected lo announce a new 
date soon. 



Local groups work to 
reduce seasonal mishaps 



Holiday revellers who pace them- 
selves within the old rubric of "one 
drink per hour" are leopardizing 
their own health, according to feder- 
al dietary guidelines released late 
last year. 

The guidelines advise Americans 
who choose lo drink that they may do 
so in "moderation" without causing 
short- or long-term health and safety 
consequences for themselves or oth- 
ers. Moderation, defined by last 
year's Dietary Guidelines lor Ameri- 
cans. IS one drink a day tor women 
and two drinks a day (or men, 

Drinkers also may be igniting ihe 
chemical mixlure that brings harm not 
only to themselves but those around 
them il they happen to find them- 
selves behind Ihe wheel ol a car. 
Last year 2,134 alcohol -relaled traffic 
fatalities occurred in the country 
between Thanksgiving through New 
Year's Eve- 
Thai's tar loo many tragedies, say 
the organizers of National Drunk and 
Drugged Driving Awareness Week, 
Dec. 7 through 13. who hope to 
spread Ihe message thai Impaired 
drivers are neither welcome nor toler- 
ated on Amerk:a's roadways. 

The news is getting a 'ittle bit bet- 
ter." said William Bailey, director ol 
the Prevention Resource Center al 
Indiana University. "During the 
1960's, there was legislation that 
improved traffic iaialiiy statistics 
somewhat, bul for 1990 the last year 
we have complete statistics there 
were slill more than 22,000 Ameri- 



cans who died in alcohol-related 
automobile crashes and another 
360,000 injured in crashes involving 
alcohol impairment." 

In Indiana, Bailey said, Ihe Gover- 
nor's Commission for a Drug-Free 
Indiana is helping coordinate aware- 
ness week aclivilies m diflerent com- 
munities. Activities will include can- 
dielighl vigils for traffic viclims, and 
Mothers Against Drunk Drivers will be 
conducting rts red-riblMn campaign lo 
call attention lo the increase in ak:o- 
hol and drug-related crashes. 

"Even through Ihe statistics for Ihe 
entire month of December are down 
in relation to other months, the num- 
bers lor holiday weekend fatalities are 
very much increased," he said. 
"According to the Nalional Salety 
council there is a 30-percent increase 
in traffic laialitles, and alter midnight 
on New Year's Eve, there is usually a 
64-percanl increase in fatalities." 

The governor's commission has sel 
two legislative priorities for the com- 
ing session, Bailey said. Il hopes to 
see the reduction of the legal delini- 
tion ol drunkenness decreased Irom 
.10 to .08-percent blood alcohol con- 
centration or roughly 20 percent less 
alcohol in the bloodstream. The ini- 
tiative was unsuccesslul last year. 

'The rationale is that in laboratory 
experiments and in crash slalislics 
analysis, we see a very delinite 
increase in crash rates at BAC rates 
above even .04 percent. The idea is 
lo gradually bring BAC down a lltlle 
See page 6 Awareness 



Holiday traditions celebrated worldwide 



By Tammy Rasnick 
News Editor 

When Americans think about Christ- 
mas, they think ol children v^ilh visions 
of sugarplums, Christmas mornings 
filed with an abundance of gilts, Ihe 
Claus tamily, chestnuts roasting on an 
Open lire, and shopping malls filled to 
capacity. That's whal Christmas is all 
aboul nght? But Christmas in Ihe Unit- 
ed States is not like Chrislmas every- 
where else in Ihe world. There are dif- 
ferent traditions and customs that in 
our hustle and bustle, we don'l even 
realize exist. 

Irina Korolenko. associate faculty of 
modern foreign languages, lived in 
Russia until 1955, Living under Com- 
munist rule didn1 allow for much Christ- 
mas celebration, bul her family man- 
aged to never miss a Christmas. 

"When we lived in Russia everything 
was suppressed. We were lucky to 
have a tree. We had lo keep Ihe tree 
hidden in the second room. We man- 
aged to have a tree when il was 
almost impossible. We never missed 
having a tree. Il was not very easy,' 



Korolenko said. 

The traditional Russian celebration of 
Chrisimas starts on Nov. 28. For six 
weeks they fast, not eating any ani- 
mals. On Christmas Eve they donl eat 
all day unlil they see Ihe first star in the 
sky. Korolenko laughed as she talked 
aboul her boys wailing to see the llrst 
star, "My boys were running Irom one 
window lo another trying to see a star." 

A church service was attended on 
Chrislmas Eve and again on Chrislmas 
morning. In Russia Chrislmas is on 
Jan. 7 because they slill follow Ihe 
ancient Julian calendar. 

According to Korolenko Ihe old tradi- 
tions have been stifled because ol Ihe 
government. Tho traditional Christmas 
tree has been changed to a New Year 
Iree to avoid any connection wilh reli- 
gion. But her tamily still practices Ihe 
old Chrislmas traditions here in the 
United States, and her hope is to keep 
Ihe traditions alive so that someday 
ihey can come back. 

Whal does Korolenko think aboul the 
kind ol Christmas Americans cele- 



brate? Too much shopping and loo lit- 
tle religion," she said. 

Gebbie Hailemariam and Abeba 
Osman are both students here at IPFW 
and from Ethiopia where Christmas is 
Ihe second most celebrated holiday. 
The Iradlion is similar 10 the Russian 
tradition. They have a lasting season 
up unlil Chrislmas Eve. After they get 
home from the Chrislmas Eve church 
service, they go home and eat. The 
next day everyone dresses in long, 
white flowing cotton dresses and visits 
close lamily. According lo Ababa, 
"Everywhere you go, you eat. Every- 
body feels sick later." 

Both Hailemariam and Osman feel 
thai Christmas in the United Slates is 
too commercialized. They leel that 
people are loo concerned about getting 
gifts and lose sight of what's really 
import anl. 

Meera Mehta, a Ireshman. came to 
Ihe United States six years ago Irom 
India. The Hindu celebration is in hon- 
or of the new year, not Christmas, The 
celebration begins on the last waning 



of Ihe moon; Ihis year it was on Nov. 6. 
When the new moon phase begins 
they celebrate Diweli, which is the 15th 
day of celebration. On this nighl Ihele 
is no moon seen m the sky so there b 
a festival of lights. According lo Meera, 
the purpose is, "to let the new year 
come in bright. Because there Is no 
moon, candies are made of raw cotton 
and oil and placed in every window and 
door." 

On this day they start cleaning lha 
house, getting rid o&gt; all old things. 
They cook sweet treats and exchange 
Ihem with Iriends. Everyone wears a 
new dress and gihs of money are giv- 
en. 

A prayer, called Lax Mi Poojan, is 
offered which is a prayer (o make good 
money. At certain limes of Ihe day Ihe 
prayer is recited in places ol business 
in hope ol a new year of successful 
business. 

According 10 Meera, there are a bt of 
Christian congregations In India as well 
and, on Christmas day, 'Vou can hear 
the church bells ringing." 



Opinion 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Thuisday. December 12, 1991 



The Communicator 



Edrtoml Board 



Tammy Ra snick 
News Editor 



Mark Donaldson 

Sports Editor 



Kelll E. Beary 

Copy Editor 



Mark Daley 

Pholo Editor 



Jim Walker 

Mar) aging Editor 



Chad Hasting 

Features Editor 



John Gruse 

Illustrator 



Dorle Reynolds Joyce Stocks 

Publisher Advertising Manager 

■adaif moiTunas whoo classes a/o In sessJon b/ Imjiona-Pur- 
■pfoni (KflaiviBLion irxDrporaiod in iho slnio Ol India/ia 
Communicator Is thai ol Iho wriier. tn In i^e coso o) unsigned odilOKOls, 

ol (he rewipapai, am) is nol lo bo conslAjed oa ropresanijng Uui ol iho 

Olficosortho Communicalof are lixatM m Suilo 2lSol Iho WoA) Momo- 
ily-PiiKiuoUnivo'sity al Fori Wayne, 3101 Coliseum Blvd E.FonWayno. 



Hostage release: What 
were we all waiting for? 

Terry Anderson is bach home now. For six years and some eight 
monlhs, Anderson kept his mind and body healthy in a stinking 
apartment in Beirut, under constant armed guard. 

The will of the man is astounding. Anderson had six years of his 
daughter's life taken away. Six years of his marfiage and six years 
of his family life stolen from him day by day with no clear end in 
sight. 

In the last eight years over 30 Westerners were kidnapped by 
Shiite terrorists in Lebanon, They demanded the release of Shi- 
ite prisoners held in Israeli jails. As captors, the terrorists were 
brutal. Two American hostages were executed, another died 
while imprisoned. 

Despite the atrocities committed. American anger never flared 
over their imprisonment. 

After the Iranian hostage debacle in the late 70s, President Rea- 
gan was quick to take a "no negotiating with terrorists" stance as a 
staple of foreign policy, to wide public acclaim. When the 
Lebanese terrorists decided to lest our government on the policy, 
the president was caught in a dilemma. Was ihe storm weather- 
able? Was tfiis a bluff the public would let him play out? 

Publicly he said yes, privately he felt no. You know already of the 
botched arms-for-hostages swap enacied by Oliver North and oth- 
ers. The President wished to credit hostage releases to his hard- 
line stance, while giving the terrorists and Iran the tools Uiey need- 
ed. 

So be suspicious when you are told that the hostages' releases 
are due to the Zeitgeist of U.S. power after the Gulf War. Tlie 
releases seem to coincide loo closely with the Middle East talks 
and the 1992 campaign to be solely the result of terrorist fruslra- 
tion. 

Indeed, had Anderson not been released, 1 992 would have been 
the fourth election year since his capture. Yet no polilician sound- 
ed a call for battle, or negotiations, or any action at alt. 

Politicians found the Lebanon hostages a difficult card to play. 
They were few in number. Initially, they were held separately, and 
it was sometimes unclear if the captures were coordinated. 

The Shiite demands were clear, but they were a low-profile group. 
They offered no Ayalollah or Gaddafi to assail. Indeed, the gov- 
ernment of Syria and Iran took the role of go-betweens. No politi- 
cian wanted to make the push for talks with the Iranian Revolution- 
ary Council. 

So for three election years the question of "What is to be done 
about the hostages?" was left untouched. The parlies had a lot of 
side shows (abortion, flag-burning, Willie Horton, Dan Quayle, 
Gary Hart, David Duke), but Anderson was kept from the picture. 

The media didn't help here, either. The Lebanese civil war is loo 
complicated a picture for a 30-second ABC news story. The terror- 
ists offered a few photos or videotapes to show the living, but TV 
was reluctant to show the tapes of the hanging of William Higgans 
next to their Jell-0 Pudding spots. 

So the bucA was passed lo the public. Americans were ignorant 
of Pi/liddle Eastern politics, let alone the Beirut war miasma, while 
caring for the hostages' safety, we let "no negotiations with terror- 
ists" stand as a pat answer. 

Is it a pat answer when the hostages' imprisonments turn to 10, 
20 years? When 30 captives become 100? When terrorists can 
threaten a plane in the air? Nuclear warheads? 

It is typically American malaise, fwledia and politics have to be in 
sync to arouse genuine public interest. Joe and Jane Average 
select a hero to applaud and a villain to hate. Their faces are 
splashed across all the networks for a couple of weeks and then 
discarded. Action is left to the two political parties. 

But when the villains have no laces, we have no target to aim our 
anger at. As the years went on. America lost its interest in a fruit- 
less situation. Terrorists held Anderson prisoner for six years, but 
Americans let him sit there. 



Lehers Policy 



Every week The Communicator reserves space on this page tor let- 
ters lo the editor. Your views are welcome. 

Preference will be given lo letters addressing matters of direct con- 
cern to IPFW II necessary, letters will be edited- 

Letlers must include the author's name, signature, address and tele- 
phone number. Please idenlily yourself as an area resident or IPFW 
student, faculty, or stall Only Ihe author's name will be published with 
Ihe letter Names will be withheld only for extraordinary reasons. The 
deadline for letters lo Ihe editor is the Monday noon of the week of 
publicalion. 

The editorial txDard reserves the righi lo reject letters. 

Letters should be sent typewritten to The Communicator office, 
Walb Memorial Union Suite 215. or mailed to The Communicator, 
Walb Memorial Union Suite 215. 2101 Coliseum Blvd., Fort Wayne, 
Ind. 46805. 



^ ''^^vGiV^-V CHRISTMAS hollerX^ 

^,, (vje (ioT AM iDefl josT For tjT' y 



tMfc^\ 1 &amp;o&amp;Pve -TO cab ■too '^^ 




srriCfc INTQ TME. HIDE, oc P^VJ 
ORAtJt^.Vou MAV U5E ft tAftWWtR. 



OF WoBV Oi&lt;i&lt;, SUCK Tvfc oe.h»J&lt;t's 

Juice OUT THRU THE PtPPtR,rv\vMT 

stick-There «Rt um-t «°i-6s 

IKSIDE THE 5X1CK. TbEE-E ftgE 1 



T-ftSTY CwEl'STMftS TRERT 
FOR OMLV Pe.MMlE'S.' 
■J^ NCJT^-. MOT FOIJ. OAlLt)R£*i 
WITH SIWU*, PROBUE-M^. 



Lehers To The Editor 



Ritchie says tuition increase for fall 1 992 



To the Editor: 

The Dec, 5, 1991, Communicator 
look greai ellon lo inform readers 
about Ihe IPFW budget. I commend 
you lor trying lo explain Ihe very com- 
plex linancial challenges lacing us this 
year. Unfortunately, the challenges 
coniinuQ lo mount because we lace a 
S307.000 reduction in our stale appfo- 
priation lor 1992-93. 

I do leet it necessary to clarify some 
.ol Ihe points you made about the bud- 
gel and campus consiruciion. You 
stated that student fees will increase 
nexl semester. In lad, fee increases 
are made only al the beginning ol the 
academic year. Given our projected 
budget needs and Ihe decrease in 
stale approprialions, we can anticipate 
a lullion increase in the lall ol 1992, 
similar to the one experienced this 
year. As lar as reallocation and budget 
cuts are concerned, cost cutting ior the 
entire campus totalled $330,000 in 
1991-92, not 5330,000 lor each major 



department. 

Your commeni Ihat IPFW has a two- 
year budgel could be misleading. The 
slate's biennial budgel process appro- 
priates funding (or the first year (1991- 
92) and projecls appropriations tor Ihe 
second year (1992-93). IPFWs annual 
operating budgel undergoes review 
and eventual approval by both Boards 
ol Trustees. 

A portion ol Ihe medical insurance 
premiums will continue to be paid by 
IPFW employees. To soften the 
impact of a conservative salary policy, 
the University will cover the 1992 incre- 
mental cosi ol medical insurance lor 
Purdue and I.U. employees. In 1993 
we expect lo return lo the customary 
sharing ol cost increases between the 
University and Ihe employees. 

Moving lo the article on campus con- 
struction, IPFW IS (orlunate lo be in the 
midst ol a large construction boom. 
The Fine Arts Building vastly improved 
Ihe quality ol space lor Ihe line aris 



programs. The completion ol the Engi- 
neering and Technology Building and 
renovation ol Nell Hall will help allevi- 
ate Ihe serious space shortage on 
campus, these two buildings, like mosi 
capital constfuction projecls at IPFW, 
are linanced through revenue bonds 
(not campus reserves) requiring debt 
service payments many years in dura- 
tion. The bonds provide dollars up 
Ifont lo pay lor new construction, bul 
they require a commllmenl ol principal 
and interest payments lor many years 
lo come. These payments come (lom 
our yearly operating budget and are 
supported by state appropriations 
called lee replacsmeni. These dollars 
do not come lo us "unhindered" as you 
implied. The entire process ol capital 
funding is highly competitive among 
stale institutions. Fortunately, Ihe stale 
has recognized our long-term problems 
due to lack ol space and has begun lo 
address these problems by granting us 
bonding authority. 



Your slalempnt about the parking 
garage funding was not toially accu- 
rate. The garage is also being lunded 
through Ihe revenue bond process. All 
parking operations are sell-lunded and 
Ihe primary source ol income is the 
parking lee paid by stall, laculty and 
students. 

For the liscal year beginning in July, 
IPFW will return (o a normal meril- 
babed salary plan. Wilh the remaining 
lunds, IPFw will try lo minimize Ihe 
elfects ol inllation on ttie operating 
budgel and maximize opponunities lor 
making quality improwemenls. I wish 
thai I could look to the 1993-95 budgel 
process wilh more optimism, bul bar- 
ling a major turnaround in Ihe slate's 
economy, higher education will contin- 
ue to lace ditficull times. 

R.H. RilchlB 

Vice Chancellor for 

Financial Affairs 



Frazier-Henry defends emergency meeting 



To the Edilor: 

For those ol you who are interested, 
one ol last week's Jetters lo the edilor 
was composed by a member ol Indiana 
Purdue Student Government Associa- 
tion, and not Derek Graham. 

Since the writei presented lo you one 
side ol Ihe slory, I leet that in my role 
as IPSGA president, I should present 
Ihe other side ol the story 

The internal allairs commrtlee ol sen- 
ate IS comprised ol lour individuals: 
Scott Beineke (white male, 21 years ol 
age): Mike Will (white male, disabled 
33 years ol age); Victoria Vinson (black 
temale. 20 years ol age); and Katie 
Grolrian (white lemale, 19 years ol 
age). These lour individuals believed 
Ihat three individuals in IPSGA had 
broken several rules. It is the charge 
ol this committee to Investigate these 
kinds ol matters. they_did investigate 
and lound evidence lo support their 
suspicions. Alter that, they lollowed 
the rules In the IPSGA constitution and 
"Roben's Rules ol Order' in order lo 
seek disciplinary action against Ihe 
Ihree IPSGA members. The internal 
allairs committee has lollowed Ihe 
rules. 

As lar as queslioning those Ihree 
members as to Iheir innocence or guilt, 
the internal allairs committee Is not 
required to ask them anything until Ihe 
actual impeachment hearing. 

What is an impeachment hearing? I 
lind Ihat many II^SGA members as well 
as students are confused by what 
impeachment means. Impeachment 
means to lind guilty or innocent. II any- 
one is lound guilty ol breaking a rule 
they can be disciplined. Thai is Ihe 
second part ol an impeachment hear- 
ing. Punishment can be anything, from 
a slap on the wrist to expulsion, 

I am lully empowered by the IPSGA 
constllulion lo call a meeting ol the 
entire government. Yes, I called it wilh 
less than 24-hours notice, but ihis was 
nol Ihe lirsl lime I had done this. There 
have been iwo other silualions where I 
had to give members less than 24 
hours notice in an emergency situation. 

The author ol last week's letter stated 
that I had specifically asked Ihe three 



accused members about their availabil- 
ity (or this particular meeting. I think 
the author better double check his 
lacls." The fact is that alter Sunday 
night's senate meeting. I asked the 
three members what day would be 
good lor them as lar as scheduling 
their impeachment hearing. Nancy 
Bargar indicated Ihat she had a Mon- 
day evening class. Mark Snyder and 
Sally Green said Ihat no time was 
good. 

The meeting 1 called the following day 
was an emergency meeting to deter- 
mine il the charges brought forth by the 
articles ol impeachment would go 
belore the eniire IPSGA. The meeting 
was supposed to be only (ilteen min- 
utes, bul actually took twenty-two min- 
utes, At Ihe beginning of the meeting, I 
specilically stated that this gathering 
was not meant lo debate Ihe specilic 
charges that were belore Ihe body. It, 
again, was meant to determine it the 
charges brought lorth by Ihe internal 
allairs committee warranted a full trial 
lor those three individuals. 

Twenty-nine IPSGA members were 
present and 27 voled. (Kelsey Keys, 
chlel justice, is a non-voting member, 
and I chose nol lo vote). The vole to 
take these charges to a trial went as 
iollows: Senator Mark Snyder 19 yes, 
4 no, 4 abstentions; Senator Nancy 
Barger 20 yes, 4 no. 3 abstentions, 
Sally Green 18 yes, 4 no, 5 abslen- 
tions. At Ihat lime, Chlel Justice Keys 
(who will run Ihe impeachment hearing) 
set a trial date. 

I am not even going lo waste your 
lime explaining Ihe Senate Standing 
Rules. Bul, again. I will lell you ihal Ihe 
author of last week's letter wanted to 
make you think that this government Is 
solely controlled by three individuals: 
myself, Scoll Beineke and John 
Weisenburger. The aulhor "lorgof to 
tell you thai the standing rules were 
authored by myselt (in the capacity ol 
Ihe aulhor Irom 1989-90), Scoll 
Beineke (current chair ol internal 
allairs), John Weisenburger (previous 
chair ol internal allairs). Lori Bishop 
(past senator), and Robert Murray 



(past internal allairs chair). II you 
would like lo see the Senate Standing 
Rules, please come the Walb 225 and 
we'll be more than happy to provide 



you a 



opy. 



Oh yesi II you are curious about the 
pari where "senate shall cast a secret 
ballot vote on all petitioners lo senate," 
please speak lo Senator Felix Moxter 
or perhaps Senator Mark Snyder. In 
the senate meeting ol June 13, 1991. 
Ser^alor Moxter molioned to have 
secret ballots to vote lor petitioners, 



Senator Snyder seconded. 

Members ol IPSGA are sick and 
tired ol the smoke screen that sena- 
tors Snyder. Barger, and Green have 
placed belore the student body^ 
There is no racism or ageism 
involved. The laa ol Ihe mailer is thai 
Ihis government has reason to believS 
that rules by these Individuals were 
broken, some many limes. 

tl you have any questions about IPS- 
GA, please feel free lo call me at 481- 
6588, or slop by Walb 225. 



Health fee criticized 



To the Editor: 

In Ihe next eight weeks, Ihe Indiana 
University Board ol Trustees will deter- 
mine whether or not a mandatory 
health insurance lee will be imposed 
on Ihe students ol all eight Indiana Uni- 
versity campuses, including ALL slu- 
denls at IPFW, 

I am particularly concerned about 
Ihis mandatory fee forlwo reasons: 1) 
Ihe short period ol lime lo make a 
decision that will impaci IPFW stu- 
dents for many years, and 2) the lack 
ol student Input. 

Let me give you some background on 
Ihe situation. Al Ihe Oct. 31 I.U. Board 
ol Trustees meeting, Ihe eight student 
body presidents brought forth Iheir 
concern about the outrageous premi- 
ums paid by students lor health care 
insurance. Trustee John Walda 
believed that the situation merited an 
investigation and formed a task lorce 
comprised ol trustees, administrators 
and students (none Irom IPFW) lo 
report back on the situation and possi- 
ble alternaiive. 

At Ihe Dec. 7 I.U. Board ol Trustees 
Meeting, the task lorce brought lorth 
an alternative they believed lo be feasi- 
ble. The alternative is to impose a $25 
health insurance fee on ALL members 
of Ihe eight I.U. campuses. That $25 
lee (covering a nine-monlh period) 



would cover a student up to $2500 per 
occurrence ol an accidental situation. 
Besides Ihe $25 fee, a student could 
elecl to have more comprehensive 
insurance, paying an additional 
amount. Students could obtain a waitr- 
erfrom Ihis lee if they provide prool of 
other insurance. 

We. (he eight student body presi- 
dents, were very willing to do whatever 
we could to gather student inpui as 
quickly as possible. However, il has 
been decided ihal a locus group, set 
up by Ihe vice chancellor ol student 
allairs lor each campus, will determine 
H Ihis lee will be Imposed or nol. 

I applaud Ihe elforts ol the task force, 
but I have a serrous problem wilh Ihe 
method it is using lo gather lis data. 
How can 30 or so students from each 
ol the eight campuses elfectively mea- 
sure the opinions and needs ol 80,000 
students? 

Using this *quick-lix' solution to Ihe 
health care situation is irresponsible, I 
hope sludenls care enough about this 
lo voice their concerns to the adminis- 
tration. What you may not realize is 
Ihat once a mandatory lee is imposed 
on you, the likelihood ol it ever going 
away is next to zero. 

Krlstlna Frazlsr-Henry 
Student Body President 



Opinion 



Thuntby. DcccmlxT 12. 1991 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Vo 



ICES 



Q. Does Helmke 
Library adequately 
serve your academic 
needs? 





Gloribel Nieves 

Junior 

Graphic Design 

'I think Ihal i1 is a very good library." 



Amy Drew 

Sophomore 

Fine Ans 

'No. Il seams like whenever I go to 
look for malerials lor a project either 
the library doesn't carry that maga- 
zin9 or book or It is missing, so lately 
I jusl go 10 the main library down- 
town. They have everything I need 
and a whole kit more * 




i^ 



MikiSutlon 

Graduate 

Biology 

'No, I don't lind this library ade- 
quate at all. I lind I need to request 
almost everything ! need through 
Document Delivery.* 



Rosann Eslevez 

Sophomore 

Anthropology 

'I doni think IVe ever checked out 
an actual book, but it's comfortable 
for a quick morning or aflernoon 
nap.' 



T*»«»l 



LluJ 

Hernando Estevez 

Junior 

Philosophy 

"H has all of the necessary services 
for students, but they are not well 
known by students. ' 



Have a Merry Christmas and eat lots of bacon 



By Jim Walker 
Managing Editor 

Traditionally, Christmas is a time 
when many o( us type up a five to eight 
page 'wish list.' photo copy it and mail 
il to ail ol our blood relatives. 

This holiday season, IVe decided to 
pass on publishing my own personal 
"wish list.' Instead. I've taken the more 
nobte route - IVe writlen a 
■Wish List for the World.' 

Note Ihal the items on the list 
benefit the entire world, nol just 
myself. Doesn't that make you (eel 
like slugs? You asked for 3 cam- 
corder? Hah! 

Anyway, here's the list. 

1. Wish: An act ol Congress or God 
forces cable companies lo quit running 
paid programming like 'The Ronco 
Show." 'How to Become a Ivlillionaire 
Selling Swampland.' and "Three Hours 



of Soloflex Fun.* Desired result: In 
place of these shows, cable weasels 
would have to run quality programming 
like The New Munslers.* 

2, Wish: The New Kids on The Block 
really get run over, not by reindeer but 
by a fleet ol speeding Greyhound bus- 
es. Desired result: Imagine the look of 
sadness and horror on the faces ol 
teenage girls everywhere when they 
hear the sad newsl 

3, Wish: Caught up with the Christ- 
mas spirit. Chancellor Joanne Lantz 
announces thai A parking now slands 
for anarchy. Desired result: Lantz also 
announces that If two people come to 
one A spot at the same lime, the two 
should step out of their cars and beat 
each other with clubs. The last one 
standing gels the spot. 

4, Wish: In a gesture ol universal 
good will, the news media takes a 




HOW MUCH 

WE DEPEND ON 

UNRELIABLE 

SOURCES 

OFOIL DEPENDS 

ON YOU. 



Drl 



ig just five miles 

per hour slower will 

help us save over 

two million gallons 

of gas a day 



*23 percent qf all Indiana AIDS cases are between 20 
' and 29 years of age. 
'AlthoughfAiD^fnaifyf^aJce several years to develop, a simple blood 
tespuAnidenii^it\fectxon with HIV within THREE to SDC months. 

• The Samuel Mercer Clink of the Fun Wayne Alien County Health Deparlment, 

' City-CMunty Building, Roont 505 offers FREE HIV testing 

Mondai - Fridiiy, 8-10:30 a.m. and 1-3 p.m. 

•Throughout the "testing process, counselors are oxqilcdale to discuss your concerns, 

testing proceduies, test results, and if necessary, tretitrheTit options. 

' r^ *All information is kept confidential. 

* Jestlag by appotatmeni only. ■ 
To arrange your confidential appointment, please 
\call 428-7504. You only need give your first name. 



We hove the latest in fashion jewelry and watches. \^ 
Just right for school, the office, or to give 
you that unique look! 
Great stocking stuffersl 



Consignor Boutique 




(JOjiofiiy (adies consignmcnl dothing 

'llpscak • 'Hfsafi ' 

3S50 WcDi Succl 

Van Wiyne, IN • (2 1 9&gt;4 8-1 -66 86 

Man. ihni Fri. 9:30 a.m. lo6 p.m. 

S!ii.9 30»,m. lo4.30p.m. j 




T DAYS INN NORTH T 

(f 1-69 and Lima Rood (S.R. 3) ( 

announcing our 



ELECTRIC SLIDE DANCE CONTEST | 



on Friday and Saturday nights, 
with the hottest dance D.J. in town! 

* FIRST PRIZE: $CASH$ 

* SECOND PRIZE: KOMET HOCKEY TICKETS 

* THIRD PRIZE: WILD "V\t Tuisl" T-SHIRT 

SUNDAY - BIG DANCE^ 

Join our S.B.D. Name That Tune Contest-N-win big prizes 



NO COVER CHARGEJ 

Drink specials all weekend long come and 
dance or just cheer on your favorite dancers! 



Healtli Food Shoppe 



o^ Ft Wayne /0'?&lt; o 



What is 







7 



Brain Pep? 



A combination of Ginko 

biloba, Kola Nut, Gota 

Kola, Siberian Ginseng 

and other of todays most 

popular herbs in easy to 

use capsule form. 

JUST DOWN THE STREET ! 

3515 N Anthony Blvd. 

483-5211 



ttiTQe- day break from the Magic Johr\- 
son story. Desired result: Nine million 
Ireesare saved, 

5, Wish; All video rental stores 
announce ttiat in an effort lo boosi the 
U.S. economy, they will pardon all out- 
standing late dues. Libraries soon fol- 
low suit. Desired result: \ get to rent 
Porky's II again, finallyl 

6, Wish: Bette Iwlidler linds God. 
Desired effect: Joins convent, never 
bothers us again. That's a wisti *For 
the Boys.' 



7. Wish: Embattled senator Nancy 
Barger is hit on the head by an anvil. 
Desired effect: She remembers every- 
thiiigl We were right the whole limel 
And she just resignsl 
WELL THATS R" ■ You have just lin- 
ished the last Angle ol 1991, so how do 
you leet? Kind o! tingly, 1 bet. Well, we 
hope you have a fine holiday season I 
know that I will enjoy spending several 
hours tortured by the sights and 
sounds ol the season. Here's a holiday 
tip: eat a lot ol bacon. 



Yule Greetings from the Obtruse Angle staft: Billy, JennI, Jim, Mindy and 
Mary Lou. 

Photos by Mark Daley 



One call could 
launch a career. 

Take the first step. Call Hire Line for a 
lisl of current job openings at Fort 
Wayne National Bank. Full-time and 
part-lime positions for high school and 
college grads- All locations, all levels. 

461-6200 



24l&gt;c 



i a &lt;Liy, 7 (l:iys a 



FOHTWAYNE 
NATiONAl 

tItatsmyBAHK 



All triiLil npjioilimily employer 



Our Gift to'Vou: 
Holiday^qm'amming 



l^ "Jeremy", 4:30 p.m. New telling of ihe Sania Claus legend by Jay 

O'Callahan. 
f6 The Pickwick Papers, 10:00 p.m. Dramatic reading from the Dickens classic. 
fg Christnias with the Philadelphia Singers t991. 11:00 ajn. 
20 Winter SolsUcc Whole Earth Christmas Celebration with the Paul Winter 

Consort. 9:00 p.m. 
2f Christmas Mu-sk; The Jazz Feclhig, 9:00 p.m. 

22 Voices of Christmas 7:00 p.m. The Scauk Group TTiejtrc presents a 
muUiculiural viewpoint to the holidays. 

23 Readings for the ScasoD: "The Christmas Horses". 7:30 p.m. From a work 
by Law a In galls Wilder. 

Dickens' "A ChrlsCmiis Tree", 10:00 p.m. Dramatic leading from the 
Dickens story. 

24 A Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols. 10:00 a.m. This annual live 
broadcast featuring the King's College Choir will also be icbioadcasi at 10:00 

Jonathan Winters' "A Christmas Carol", 4:00 p.m. Winters narrmes and 

performs all the male roles in this Dickens Chrisunas classic. 

Readings Tor the Season; "The Music Box Christmas". 7:30 pjn. A 

grandmother's music boj helps her grieving family adjust id her recent deth 

and recover the feeling of Chnstmas. 

WclcomE Christmas 8:00 p.m. Plymouth Festival Chorus and Orchestra 

Midnight Moss, 11:30 p.m. A work for Christmas Eve composed by Maic- 
AnWine Charpcnticr, performed by ihc King's College Chapel Choir and 
English Chamber Orchcsna. 

25 1991 St. Olar Christmas Special: Welcome All Wonder^ 10:30a.m. 
ChrL&lt;;tmas Sounds from Bavaria, 1:00 p.m. 

Bach'.-i "Christmas Oratorio". 2:00 p.m Performed by the Snuihsonian 

Chamber Orchesua and Chorus. 

Readings for the Season: "The Fir Tree", 7:30 p.m. The Huns Christian 

Andersen laic. 

26 Handers"Mcsslah",8:lX) p.m. As performed by the Fort Wayne 
Philharmonic Orchestra and Chorus. 

27 Echoes of Christmas 1991, 10:00 ajn.The Dale Wailand Singers Christmas 

COnCCTL 

Sonic Sea.sonlng5, 8:00 p.m. Holiday music in the spirit of "Music from the 
Hearts of Space". 
2g A Christmas Ccltle Sojourn. 7:00 p.m. Music, stories and poetry. 

29 A Jazz Piano Christmas 2, 10:00 p.m. 

30 VHIanclcos de Mexico: Mexican Christmas Carols. 1 1 :00 ajn. 

T^U" ^e^^A Sac 
^f Backrirc. 4:00 p.m. Buck Henry. Jane Curtain and more of America's 
bri^icsi satiric talent offer an unforgettable review of the year. 
American Jazz Radio Festival New Year's Eve, 10:00 p.m. 

"Htm "^tMA 7&gt;Uf 

1 New Year's Day from Vienna, 1 1 :00 ajn. From Austria's Musikverein lo the 

2 Mozart's "Messiah" with Christopher Hogwood, 9:(X) a.m. A performance 
of the "Messiah" is orchestralcd by Mozan by the Boston Handel and Haydn 

,? Alone of AH Her Sex, 10:00 ojn. This program concentrates on the Virgin 
Mary a&lt;: she was portrayed in music from ihc mcdicvi through baroque 
periods, 

4 A Christmas Card from the Netherlands. 4:30 p.m. 

5 Winter Solstice 1991, 7:00 p.m. Music, poetry and more, celebrating the 
shortest day/longest night of the year, 

eotHfUati deaaiifiUoM. etUi 423- 1 629 

WENlR«89a 



Features 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Thufsdfly. December 12. 1991 



Review 



Margaret Atwood's 'Cat's Eye' 
makes a striking vacation read 



By MIka Wade 
Slati Writer 

'Cat's Bye' 

Marga/et Alv/ood 

Banlatn 

445 pages 

For years Margarel AlWDod has been 
dazzling het readers with her rolhless 
character porlrails and r^ever faltering 
prose. Atwood has wrttten both poetry 
and nonlknion, but she Is besi known 
lor her novels, which include such 
works as 'Life Before Man." The Edi- 
ble Woman" and "The Handmaid's 
Tale,- 

In her international bestseller. "The 
Handmaid's Tale,' Atwood led her 
readers on a chilling journey inio a 
ItJiuie of fear, degtadalion and help- 
lessness. fJow in her recent novel, 
"Cat's Eye,' Atwood guides us through 
the labyrinth of the reality and Illusions 
of life. 

The heroine of "Cat's Eye." painter 
Elaine Risley, returns to her childhood 
home of Toronto where an ail gallery 
has arranged a letrospective of her art. 
Once in Toronto, Elaine is bombarded 
with memoiies of her past. One of her 
most daunting memories is ihat of her 
childhood playmate Cordelia, who 
ruled the Itio of girls who taught Blame 
of the ruthless loyalty and betrayal of 
youth's friendships. Elaine must wres- 
tle with and conquer her own fears, 
guilt and hatred that came to life in 
those days of her youth and have car- 
ried over into her adult life. 

'Cat's Eye' tells a stor/ so real and 
emotional that it will appeal to a wide 
audience. It's a rare find for the casual 
reader. The story never drags. 
Instead it may transport you back to 
your own childhood. Describing the 



bizarre and magical rituals of youth in 
such wonderful detail Ihat you can't 
help getting caught up in the drama. 
"Cordelia and I are riding on the 
streetcar, going downtown, as 
we do on winter Saturdays. The 
streetcar is muggy with twice- 
breathed air and the smell ol 
wool. Cordelia sKs with noncha- 
lance, nudging me wilh her 
elbow now and then, slaring 
blankly at the other people with 
her gray-green eyes, opaque and 
glinting as metal. She can oul- 
slare anyone, and I am almosi as 
good. We're impervious, we 
scintillale, we are thirteen." 
Atwood carries the authenticity of her 
characters into a new dimension ol 
reality, keeping constantly in step with 
the age-determined priorities of the 
characters. 

Atwood's real cunning comes through 
in the fact Ihat this book will also 
appeal to the English professors and 
symbolism fanatics of the world. As 
Atwood guides the casual reader 
through the labyrinth of the reality and 
illusions of life, she allows Ihe more 
serious reader lo step back from the 
stojy and view it as an outsider. In this 
way the reader can identify many of the 
contradictions in Ihe lite of a modern- 
day woman. Atwood gently nudges us 
toward a higher understanding of Ihe 
world around us and how the expecta- 
tions placed on us by ourselves and 
others, as well as our life experiences, 
can cloud our vision of reality and suc- 
cess. 

The extraneous characters in the 
book offer us a view ol the world as it 
would be seen by a mere observer of 



life, rather than the tinted view ol an 
actual participant. That detachment 
gives us the ability to see that lile will 
go on without us, and Ihat reality is not 
what we perceive, but what is there 
when we are not around to perceive it. 
Elaine must struggle with the terrible 
truth that her perception of life may not 
be Ihe true reality of the situation. 
"It's as if I've been standing out- 
side In the dark and a shade has 
snapped up, over a lighted win- 
dow, revealing the life that's been 
going on inside in all lis clarity 
and detail. There is that glimpse 
during which I can see. And then 
not. A wave of blood goes up to 
my head. I doni want to know," 
Elaine gives to us a rare and precious 
glimpse into Ihe world around us. 
opening our eyes to the wonders and 
sorrows ol lite that perpetuate them- 
sefves. as we blindly trudge though our 
lives looking al the world through black 
tinted glasses. 

Margaret Atwood's "Cat's Eye" is 
guaranteed to delight the reader. Her 
humorous, compassionate, heartbreak- 
ing portrayal of Elaine's childhood will 
stay with the reader long after the book 
has been tost. 



Bestsellers aren't the best books 



By Chad Nesting 
Features Edttor 
Top Ten Bestsellers of 1991 

An unscientific and probably inaccu- 
rate listing ol Amerk:a's favorite books, 
with unsolicited commentary, 

1. "Scarlett" by Alexandra Ripley, 
Inspired by the Warner Brothers 
accounting department. It's irrelevant 
who got hired to write Miz Scarlett back 
to life; H's Ihe payoff Ihat matlersi 

"Scarlett" Is Ihe story ol a fabulously 
beautHul heroine who travels lo Ireland, 
endures personal trauma, finds great 
success and gels her man. Buy it or 
wait for Ihe six-part mini series, starring 
Susan Lucci as Scarlett O'Hara. 

2, "Millie's Book" by Millie Bush, 
"as dictated to Barbara Bush." It's 
about the lile ol a dog in the While 
House, This book's success wouldm 
be lunny, unless you keep in mind 
that it outsold Ronald Reagan's auto- 
biography 3-to-1. I bet if Millie the 
dog had sold missiles to Ihe Iranians, 
she wouldn't have 'lorgol.' 

3. "Wealth Without Risk" by Charles 
Givens, Who's going lo resist a tllle 
like that? Tack an $16,95 list price 
onto the cover, and Mr. Givens' plan 
does indeed become risk-free. 

4, "Message from 'Nam" by Danielle 



SPRING BREAK REPS. NEEDED 

Earn caah and free travel selling 

trips tX3 Jamaica, Cancun and 

Florida! 

CaU STS 1-800-648-4S49 



I PREGNANT? | 
I 



I 



PREGNANCV TERMINAKON TO \i WEEK: 
OUH PmStClANS ARE 

LCENSED GYNECOLOGIST . 
WE OFFER timiOUSOXlUE 

GAS ANfllGESIA 
C«!l Toll Fret l-eOMn'Mlt 





NEW YEAR'S EVE BASH 

feotming Ouktt Tumoto and 

The Powr T^io 

SIS.OOfiatiAel 

S2S.O0peiaupl« 
Buyearlyl Duke 
Turrrato sells out 

every yeorll 



'The Center For Women And Reluming Adults is a Sale Haven For Students 

In Crisis We OKerSiipporl, Guidance and Advocacy, We Can Hetp, 

Call: 481-6029 

Monday-Thursday 10AM-4 PM 

WALB G-25 

Adult Students' Re-entry and Orientation (ASTRO) program will 
be held on Thursday, January 9, 1992 In ClaBsroom Medical 
Building starting at 5:30 with a campus tour, followed by 
exhibit tables provided by academic departments and campus organizations. 
The main program starting at 7:10 p.m. will feature a returning adult student 
speaker, two half-hour workshops and complete the program with a faculty panel 
discussion. 
Refreshments will be available. 



Conquerl!&gt;g Fear of PabBc Spooking Workshop Series ^N]ll start on January 20, i992, M :30 to UOO p.m. in 
WALB MEMORIAL UNION, G-21. Bring a sack lunch. Sign up through the Center in 
Walb G-25 or caU 481-6029. This workshop will be led by Masters' students fium the 

Department of Communication. 



Steele, File under humor. Cover can 
best be described as 'camo-glilter,* 
Steele dons a Banana Republic shirt 
and leans on an old typewriter lor 
authenticity. Her face is still air- 
brushed, though. 

"Nam' is a story ol a fabulously 
beaullful heroine who travels to Vtet- 
nam, endures personal trauma, finds 
great success and gets her man. 

5, "II Was On Fire When I Lay 
Down On It* by Robert Fulghum. 
Kindergarten philosophy, Fulghum's 
so full of warm fozzies, he reminds 
me of a lint trap, Perlecl for Xeroxing, 
Put a page on your refrigerator door, 
and t&gt;e inspired every time you go lor 
a Ho-Ho, 

6, "The Sum of Alt Fears" by 
Tom Clancy, Nuclear shoot-em-up 
in the Mideast, For big boys who 
like deadly toys. 

7, "Nancy Reagan: The Unautho- 
rized Biography" by Kilty Kelley. 



Also known as "The Shaming ot the 
Shrew.: Everyone knew "Mommy* 
was a hard woman to love; she haled 
drugs and Raisa Gorbachev wilh 
equal fervor, but making it wilh Frank 
in Ihe White House? Bad lasle. Look 
at the bright side though^ it might have 
been Geraldo, 

8, "Neadlul Things" by Stephen 
King - 'The LasI Castle Rock Story." 
With demon dogs and killer clowns 
already roaming Ihe streets of Caslle 
Rock, you'd Ihinh property values 
would have gone down the hole, Pray 
(or writer's block, 

g. "Aspen Gold" by Janet Oalley. 
The story of a fabulously beaulilul 
heroine who endures personal trauma, 
finds great success and gets her man. 

10. "No Greater Love" by Danielle 
Steele. The story of a fabulously beau- 
tiful heroine who endures personal 
trauma, finds great success and gels 
her man. 



[SEOSTUDENT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE ' 

We fiave ajoB that may interest you! 

Telephone Supporl- Knowledge of occounling. Sel-up, lesling and 

shipping of products, Sol.-Wed. 10a.m.-6:30 p.m. FT. $8.07/hr. 

Clerk/Typist- Up to 20 hours as school schedule permits and 40 
hours in the summer, $5,70-$6,22 per hour. 

Engineering Student Trainee- This position Is year round 
employment. Must at least be sophomore status. S6.50 ■^ a 
maximum ol S750/year tuition reimbursement. 

Nursing Assistant- On-site 105 hour nursing assistant program. 
Benefits include health, life, disability insurance, paid holidays &amp; 
vacations/sick leave. 2nd shift: 2:30-11 p.m. 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY 

f ■■ Jj3 PURDUE UNIVERSITY 
I fA\ K^ FORT WAYNE 

Student Employment Service 

Walb 113 ' 481-6596 

STOP IN TODAY! ^ ' 





It took Galileo 16 years to master the universe 
You have one night. 



It SL'ems unfair. The genius had alJ that lime. While you have a few 
short h(turs to leant your sun spots from your satellites before the 
dreaded astronomy exam. 

On the other hand, Vivarin gK'es you the definite advantage. It helps 
keep you awake and mentally alert for hours, "Safely and conveniendy. So 
even when the subject matter's dull, your mind will stay razor shaq). 

If Galileo had used Vwarin, maybe he could have mastered the solar 

— """ Reviw with vivarin: 




vInSRIN 






-I A TANNING 

lU SESSIONS 
ONOf $0^50 



24' 



Package includes Nexxus, Redken, and Sebastian Hair Products, 
Paul Mitchell Styling Bruah, California Tan Accelerator Gel and 
Intensifying Gel. 

r: 1 



$500 OFF I 

ANY COLOR &amp; 
HIGHLIGHTING 
Priced $19.99 &amp; Up 



t!;^!!^''?"?.*^***™**''* K-HAIIT l'LAZ,\ f^ST 
SHOPPING CLVrER KOH.OJucuiuHhJ. 

022 Norlhrvp 
453-9682 



Get a warm glow this winter 
at Fiesta and add sparkle to 
your holiday season with our 
Holiday Sparkle Pack 




434-9168 



K-JURTPUZASOinU 

7SD8K-MirlPI(uSouiIi 

(lk1&lt;&gt;»nRl-27£rillmJia) 

447-9362 



Features 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Thutsdjy. December 12. 1991 



Review 



Four Horsemen prove a fine line betv/een dumb and fun 



By Chad Nesting 
Features Editor 

ThB Four Horsemen 

•Nobody Said II Was Easy' 

Del American Records 

Being dumb isn't as easy as il 
looks. Finding the right blend ol 
three ctiords combined with bases! 
teenage urges can be a task. 

The Ramones aspire lo be dumb, 
but their wit keeps slipping through 
the cracks. (Two song liltes: "The 
KKK Took My Baby Away* and 
"Every Time I Eal Vegetables I Think 
of You.') Kiss can'l decide if it was 
better (dumber) wilh makeup on or 
off. AC/DC has Ihe fight dumb stuff, 
but after ten years of having "A Drink 
ori Me* I worry for the group's livers. 



Four Horsemen producer Rick 

Rubin has been looking (or Ihat blend 
for several years. He had il on The 
Culfs "Eleclfic" record, but Ihe group 
ditched him to reach for Zep-hood 
lablemales. The Black Crowes came 
close, but they love their fake RSB 
ballads too much. 

Rubin struck paydirt with Ihe Horse- 
men this year. Well, lo be trulhful. il 
was lasl year. Singer Frank Slarr 
recently finished a six-month bid in 
Ihe LA, county jail for aggravated 
assault, a term that stopped the 
Horsemen's work on this record lasl 
summer and kepi them from louring. 

Now that's really dumb. 

As with other Rubin-produced 
rock bands like The Cult, Ihe 



Beastie Boys and Trouble, 
AC/DC"s "Back in Black" serves as 
the sonic model tor "Nobody." 
Chunky, choked-off chords from 
the guitar tine combine with bass 
that's mixed loud. Horsemen 
drummer Ken r^flonlgomefy imitates 
the Neanderthal 4/4 of AC/DC 
skinsman extraodinaire Phil Rudd. 

The tunes are the Horsemen's 
own, though. The tempo starts fast 
and stays fasl; your loe won't stop 
tapping. 

The title tune starts Ihe record off 
in high style. Guitarist Haggis 
proves himself a first-rate riff man, 
while Starr's raspy high-pitched 
voice pours plenty of altitude over 
the song. 



Mayo story published 
in 'Heartlands' book 



By Kelli E. Beery 
Copy Editor 

Reieclion can turn into accep- 
lance. At least that is Ihe experi- 
ence of Wendell Mayo, assistant 
professor of English, Mayo sent 
his book of short stories to Larry 
Smith, co-martaging editor of 'The 
Heartlands Today," a collection ol 
essays, short stories and poems 
that fias a Midwest theme to it. 
Smilh sent Mayo a rejection letter 
bui slated that a short slory in the 
manuscript had ifie possibilily ol 
being published in 'The Heartlands 
Today." Mayo sent back Ihat short 
slory, and it was accepled. 

Mayo's short story is "Heating 
and Cooling People." 'These are 
the people thai fix your furnaces 
and fix your air conditioning when 
they break," said Mayo. "If you've 
ever had thai happen, of course, 
you want it done soon. So they are 
■i constantly being called out lo fix 
' other people's problems. Whal 
intrigued me about thai premise is 
a sort ol ironic sense: While 
they're taking care ol other peo- 
ple's problems, how are they taking 
care of their own?" 
"" The setting of the short story is 




YOUNG'S FLORIST 

4131 N. Clinton 

Cliooie from our large seleciion of live 

plants, floral arrangements and centerpieces 

for those holiday parlies. 



483-2956 

AnJ doN'i fonqET oun lovtly consAqts Awd bouiONmiERS foR 
iltAi EKcliANiiNq sOMEOnE And iIiai spticAl dnr^CEl 



You've heard all the lyrics on 
"Nobody" before, though. The 

song titles tell the tale: 'Rockin' Is 
Ma Business. ' "Let It Rock,' "Can't 
Stop Rockin'." 

Odes to Ihe "outlaw rocker* myth 
abound here. II seems the singerls 
always got Ihe wheel in one hand, 
Ihe sheriffs daughler's knee in the 
olfier, Ihe sheriff in the rear view mir- 
ror and contraband in the Injnk. One 
particularly funny lyric is in Ihe tune 
"Hot Head." After describing the 
charms of a "rich man's daughter,' 
Starr declares, "But she can't have 
the keys to my Chevrolet'" He then 
spends the whole verse describing 
his triched'Out Chevy, forgetting his 
woman entirely. 



in the Midwest, but Ihe concern 
is not only in the fvlidwesL said 
Mayo, il is all over. "Setting 
alone doesn'l make a piece of 
liction," Mayo stated. 

For being published, Mayo 
received an honorarium through 
Ihe Ohio Arts Council, which sup- 
ports Ihe publication. 

He started writing 10 years ago 
when he had something to say, 
said Mayo. "I Ihink if somebody 
had something to say, they ought 
lo wfile and they ought lo try lo get 
il published. They shouldn't let 
anyone or anybody intimidate 
lhem,"said Mayo, 

Mayo received a bachelor's 
degree in journalism from the Uni- 
versity ol Toledo, a master's ol fine 
arts in writing fiction from Vermont 
College, and a doctorate in 20th 
century British and American lilera- 
lure from Ohio Universily. 

Mayo also writes articles for 
scholarly journals, reviews of other 
authors' works, short stories, 
poems and essays. About a dozen 
ol Mayo's short stories have been 
published, he said. 



WP^TCH THIS." j 



Who cares if it's not poetry, 
though? You'll find yourself danc- 
ing and shouting along regardless. 
"Nobody" is a loud, rowdy record. 
If you like rock 'n" roll, you'll love 
this stuff. 

One minor quibble, though. On 
Ihe second side, a lune called "75 
Again" celebrates the current rock 
'n' roll rebirth, because "It feels like 
'75 again!" 

No, il doesn'l. Rock 'n" roll might be 
aging, but Ihat doesn'l mean thai old 
always equals good. The 1991 rock 
'n' roll picture is hot and colorful 
enough for me, Ihank you. The Four 
Horsemen have taken Ihe low road, 
and there's no reason Ifiey shouldn't 
be happy with Ihat, here and now. 



Th£ Great ^ill Ward 





The story of two huge families in Fascist Italy who join 
together in celebration of food and family. Winner of the 
Donatello Award for Best Screenplay! 




The cinematized autobiograpfiy of writer/poet Janet Frame wtio. as a shy \^ AfNCtl AT Mv TAbk 
misfit, uses language and imagination to fend against tragedy and ^ ' 

persecution An absorbing winner of more than 20 internotionol awards! 



Made possible with support from Lincoln National Corp.. Arts UrniedM 
tlie Indiana Arts Cotnmission and the National Endowment for the Ans. * 



''Superb. 

fjHMi IS .1 visual pt 






Alicroylge' 




IBM 


IV 

Integrit 

you really 
computer 
sure your 
1MB* PS/ 
from Mic 
computer 
pretty cas 
And sysle 
^anjusi 
TTicIB\ 
team give 
piDducis 
know-ho\ 

Sec us fo 
and supplic 

Located c 
the N. Anil 
Muncic, 
(219) 48^ 


IBM Dependability. 
licroAge Know-HoA 

/. Quality. Value. If work in sync with yo 
want value for your business goals. IBM 
invesiment, make products arc among I 
next purchase is an reliable around. No w 
2* computer product IBM is one of die oil 
oAgc*. After all, most trusted names i 
are more ihan business. And Micro 
cs an fancy names. been tailoiing IBM s 
ms expenisc is more lo your needs for mo 
p service. seven years. 
I and MicroAge IBM and MicroAg 
s you dependable Fanners for you, Cal 
jacked by llie IBM -authorized Mic 
V to make them Compuier Center tod 

MicioAge" 

all your computer systems, software, pcriptierals 

osc lo campus at 3426 N. Anlhuny llouleviird (in 
ony Shopping Center) and at 3030 N. Granville i 

-3164 (317)284-890 


V. 

ur 

computer 
le most 
onder. 
est and 
iihc 
^ge has 
3lulions 
re than 

e. 
your 
oAge 

ay. 

i 




eiSVSMCCL MIftDAgt 11 • n«lil&lt;r«l Iradimitk or Mkri&gt;A||&lt;! Cunpultr CcnKn, Inc. IDM (nd fSTl «r* 

ttiliCirrd IridiiniclLi at Inlirnilionil Builnoi Michlnu Csrporillan. MIcroAgg II in Inlicnillonal iilu 

orginluUon or IndtpcnJrnllf OHnid ind opcrikd hinehUa and campin^-owncd Ctntiri, 



^UBiyyiiRiv^ 

Sandwiches &amp; Salads 




$1.00 Off 



ixplroi: 12-15-91 
Riviera Subway 

Duponi Crossing 

SicUhom Rd. 
Coliseum Blvd. 



99* sale 

Bvy or\9 Foci-Ea^ Sub Sd'^^ch 

99c. O^rnDlKitd-ilhiiiv 
olK&gt;ro&gt;Fer. 

wpjfot: 12-15-91 
Riviera Subway 
Duponi Ciossing 

SicllhomRd, 
Coliseum Blvd. 
E, Stale Blvd, 



59« sale 

Bu/ one lii inch inock Said- 
oi fsgutor ptict Old gO oni li 
incK SnoiV SarkK-ch la S»t 
Oilet not nolld "ih on;r oitwr 
offer. 

expiiei: 12-15-91 
Rivicia Subway 
Duponi Crossing 

Siellhom Rd, 
Coliseum Blvd. 
E, State Blvd, 




Did YOul&lt;now Coiumbo Frozen 
Yogurt t)as all the taste of premium 
Ice cream but ]/3 (ewer calories? 



FREE 



Yogurt 

moff 



THI 



HUIXITIIXIB IS 01#l 




AVAILAfll£ M 

749-4045 
2212 Maplcctcsi Rd. jbikir^Ct 



*^oo(2S. Comics and ^lil*tqs 436.0159 

,,,„„., ^ '-' 5950 W. Jefferson Blvd. rrt~ Ce» 



TAKE A MOMENT 

TO THINK 

ABOUT 

BREAST CANCER. 



Appioiinvilcly one in evcy nine women wS 

dcvplopb'c.islcanc«int»(l!t;iinw, 

A monlttfy bioatl sell oanwvllw slouW tw 

a loulrnctwnllli Kibil m vnynofi ovct 

?0 yc.TS ol cige Foi (uilto infoirnilion 

irq,iiding wly dPlw.fwn, 

Ml (600) 721 2M1«crVii,iy';, 

9 00 .1 m 5 00 p "1 (CP11I13I Imir: 71x10) 

Y-ME 

NAllon.tt Brc All Ctnttr Kolllne 



ATTENTION TRANSFER STUDENTS 
Available Immediately to female 
tenant: half o( a 2 BR-2 BA unit al 
Watdcn Apts, Indianapolis 

Coll Sharon Anytime 
1-317-384-5637 



REFINANCE 




Local Prolesaiofial Loan Otiglrralor 

,, and Servicer Since 1693 
'A S-STAH nUANCIAl INSriWriON' 



savings bank 



Phone 219/422-3502 



Httilng 

LlAltt 




ATAZAR'S 



Now I 



Now Itiat you've danced 

trie nigtil away, you 

need lo satisfy 

Iticse midnigtil 

munctiies So 

cti«* out the new 

LATE N1TE menu 

al Azai's. 



It tealufes lots ol greal food al 
great prices 

• Five Fiutfy Omelettes 

■ Six Moonligtil 
Breakfasts 

■ Four Starlight 
Sandwiches 

■ Eight Dreamy 
Desserts 

• More Ihan 10 other Sides and 
Beverages 



eleHes 



The next lime your not quile ready 

A lo call il a nighl. head 

^^0^ lo the nearest Azai's 

^^ C Big Boy Family 

j| aI Restaurant for the all- 

|r new LATE NITE menu, 

ini lame the 

UiiJnight 

Munchies, 




BigBou 



News 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



TTiursday. December 12. 1991 



Saint Nick 



Continued from page 1 

certain day ot tha yaar. 

However in many CenUal and 
South American countries where the 
Catholic religious spirit dominates. ii 
Is the Infant Jesus rather than Sanla 
Glaus to whom this generosity is 
atlfibuled. 

In many counlties. says the 
World Book, people OKchange pre- 
sents on a day other ihan Chnsimas, 

In the Netherlands and Belgium. 
Salnl Nicholas visils on Saint 
Nicholas Eve. Dec. 5. He leaves gifts 
in shoes children leave by the lire- 
place. He is olten accompanied by a 
character named Black Pels, who 
caries a birch rod to whip naughty 
children People in Austria. Hungary 
and parts o( Germany also celebrate 
Saint Nicholas Eve. 

In some parts ol Germany, gifts 
are delivered at Christmastime by 
Knecht Ruppiecht or Christklnd. 
From the name Christklnd came the 



character Kris Kringle. the angel-like 
llgure who brings gifts at Christmas, 

In Sweden, the Juttomten, an eH- 
like character, brings gifts on Christ- 
mas Eve. in Norway the elt is called 
Julenissen. In Denmark it is Yule 
man who brings gifts and engages In 
games around the Christmas tree. 

In Italy there is a lemale Santa 
Claus. Belana; she has a Russian 
counteiparf. Babouschka. recently 
changed to Grandfather Fiost, 
according to Collier's Encyclopedia, 

Evan In far away countries like 
Australia and South Africa, Father 
Christmas, despite heat and tonid 
conditions ot weather, descends 
chimneys to bring gifts for children 
and add joy to the eating ot turkey 
and plum pudding. 

The tiny ell ol the early 19th century 
United States has grown into (he lull- 
sized persona of our present-day 
department store Santa Claus. 



Lith 



uania 



Lafayette 



Continued from page 1 

added that the two parties were not 
related at all. 

By January of 1991. Smulkstys said 
that the Soviet army had targeted and 
seized important buildings.' The press 
was the main target, he said, because 
the television towers and newspapers 
were the lirst to be overtaken. There 
was little bloodshed," he continued. 

According to Smulkstys, the events 
that took place in the Soviet Union 
were overshadowed by the war with 
Iraq. *AII attention was focused there 
so no one really looked at the Impor- 
tance of what was going on In Eastern 
Europe.' Although there was much 
turmoil within the Soviet Union, he said 
that the events "increased the determi- 
nation ot the Lithuanian people,' 

During the summer of 1991. 
Smulkstys again returned to Lithua- 
nian. He said that while he was vis- 
iting, "the mood was not good, and 
the country was in a state ol poor 
economics," That summer there 
were several attacks on Lithuanian 



Continued from page 1 

careful scholars make errors when 
dealing with Lalayette. For a knowl- 
edge ot his later years, one must turn 
to charavay (Etienne Charavay's 1898 
one-volume biography), who devotes 
only 19 pages to the period 1815- 
1824,- 

Due both to the lack of published 
material and its unreliabll:ty. Nealy had 
to research original source for her 
book. This meant trips to numerous 
libraries throughout the United States, 
and France, combing through reams of 
fetters, diaries, and legal documents. 
She found materials at the British 
Museum, Library of Congress, Lilly 
Library at Indiana University of Virginia. 
Cornell University, and Duke Universi- 
ty. Fluent in French (N,'^ely has a 
bachelors and masters in French lan- 
guage and literature), she was able to 
work through such materials. 

'You simply couid not do this kind ot 
research If you didn't know the lan- 
guage.* she said, Neely. who was 
raised in Latin America and was bilin- 
gual as a chlkJ. still reads Spanish with 
ease and some Italian. 

Starting In 1976, while working on her 
. doctoral dissertation, Neely began a 
g series of trips to France to do work at 
" the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, the 
Paris National Archives, and depart- 
mental archives throughout the coun- 
try. She found some material by luck. 
She describes one such incident, 
'I was In a libra/y and there just hap- 
pened to be a man there Irom Le Mans 
who was cataloguing local newspa- 
pers, I told him what I was doing and 
he said he knows someone who had 
letters that Lafayette had written to 
Charles Goyet. a lawyer who edited his 
own liberal newspaper. The letters 




G^teil^r. bn9ua9oS5ftr) 

-— ^V tulonng. leaching and x.^" 

f""^ Iron doling Mrvices ovoilabla.^*^ 

' Graduate of Moscow Teacher' 



* Employed us Interpreter by 
Russian NaOona) Chamber of 
Commerce In Moscow. 

• Free-lance Interpreter for many 
Wcsltm corporations doing 

business In Uic USSR. 
• CAU ALYSSA: 744-2039 
tor tutoiing ia!oi or 
additional servlces.r 



^zteca 

BIENVENIDOS 

NUl^rUA CASA 
us SU CASA 



Serving Fort Wayne's favorite 

Mexican food and drink for 

18 years 

OI'UN 7 DAYS.LUNCH AND 

DINNER 
COCKTAILS-I-AMILY ROOM 

535 E. SIAl L BLVD.- 
4K2-2172 



were pari of a private lamily collection 
and had never been published, I lound 
the lamily and they kindly let me look at 
the (eftefs. In France, many historical 
documents are part of family heritage 
and cannot be given away, I couldnl 
even get copies ot some letters 1 want- 
ed. The Lafayette heir Is sitting on a 
bunch ol papers right now. but he and 
his wife are childless, and those should 
become accessible some day when 
they die," 

According to Neely. Lafayette himself 
Is best understood through his actions, 
not his words, "I don't think you could 
write a psychobiography.' she said, 
'He wasn't a political philosopher; he 
wasnl an Intellectual. He was a simple 
man. a general, and not an introspec- 
tive writer. His lack of (acilily with 
words has hurt his reputation with his- 
torians. Yei he was one ol the most 
famous people in Europe, because ol 
all ol his political connections with liber- 
al groups,' 

Hef book focuses on those connec- 
tions and draws circles of Intluenlial 
people around Lafayette, Those peo- 
ple Included Frances 'Fanny' Wright, a 
young Scotswoman, atrout 40 years his 



junior, who shared his enthusiasm lor 
the United States and wrote her own 
book In praise of U.S, society; Ben- 
jamin Constant, a political ally and fel- 
low deputy in the Chamber; Jeremy 
Bentham. the British relormer' and U.S, 
President James Monroe, who invited 
him to visit the United States as an 
honored guest in 1824. 

"I hope people who read this book will 
have a better understanding of what he 
was trying to do,' Neely said. "It was 
my Intention In the book to gel people 
to look at him more obiecllvely." 

According to Stanley M. Izerda, editor 
ol a live-volume edition ol Lalayette's 
letters during the American Revolution, 
she succeeded. He wrote in a critique 
of work: 

"I was impressed by the thorough- 
ness with which Neely has combed the 
sources and the suppleness with which 
she has woven them into a fresh, origi- 
nal account. ...It seems to me clear that 
she has joined Spitzer and Pinkney as 
the best-qualilled Americans in the era 
of the Restoration and the Orleans 
regime that follows ' 

CoufTesy IPFW News Bureau and 
Publications 




CRYSTAL COVE 

•Crystals-Books- Jewelry 
Self-Help Tapes-Gemstones 

Come see us for 

gemstone candles 

and Christmas 

tapes! 

Jean Brawn 



Wells Street Crossing 

350a Wells Street 

John Scttnieciers Fort Wa,rte. IN 46808 

(219)483-4129 





We service all makes of import 
vehicles from Audi to Yugo and 
thiose in between. We also have 
over 50 years experience on 
American cars. We guarantee it!! 
From electrical to heavy 
mechanical v^^ork -- we do it all! 



FACULTY) 
VALID ON 
REPAIR 
SERVICES 



^eia. ^ &lt;^c^^uaiHted t^^d^suf! 



I COOLING SYSTEM &amp; 
I RADIATOR SERVICE 



«34 



90 



j -i Imped coolria tyilem, b 



i pQvio' lluUi cooli/tg lyilom. 



I ELECTRONIC TUNE-UP ! 



J reg, '49" 

I $0^90 6&amp;ecyi 

I w^4cyl, Gllghllymore 
I most cars 



j VCrxck &amp; HI Knrg. vacuuri. 
I caibuisuv &amp; Idlaipood 
I Vbul&amp;UncHipiuliclua* 
j V IZrT&gt;:]niri/i;,O0OmJBwuiwir 



j_With coupon thru 12-3I-91_j [With coupon thru 12-31-9lJ 
Call 436-640Q for appolnlment 




TIME CORNERS 

5825 Covington Road at W, JeHerson Blvd. 

HOURS:M-F8to6, Sdi. Bto2 



Computerized Car Care 

■DISCOUNT MAY NOT BE USED WfTH COUPONS OR OTHER SPECIALS. 



customs officials that were meant to 
provoke retaliation, especially while 
President George Bush was visiting 
the Soviet Union, "The attacks were 
also meant to embarrass Gorbachev 
since Bush was there." 

Instead of violent retaliation, 
Smulkstys said that the people set 
up demonstrations and strikes. 
Finally Lithuanian, Estonia and 
Latvia were recognized as indepen- 
dent Baltic republics by Ihe Soviet 
Union. He said, "This ended 50 
years under Soviet control, and 
today over 100 countries have rec- 
ognized the Baltic states as being 
independent,* 

At Ihe end ot the lecture, audience 
members asked about the situatbn ol 
the Battles today, Smulkstys respond- 
ed. Things are not always that easy 
lor them," Currently they are facing 
economic and ethnic problems, with a 
continuous presence of Soviet troops. 
He said that Ihe original objective of 
the three republics was to return to the 
land and farm, but 'many young people 
doni want to slay in (arming," 

One loreign audience member did 
mention the food system within Lithua- 
nia and pointed out that, atlhough agri- 
culture is on Ihe decline, there is no 
shortage of food in the area. 

As the discussion concluded, some 
Lecture-goers lingered to discuss top- 
ics mo/e thoroughly, 

Phil Kennel, director of international 
services re-emphasized the impor- 
tance of Ihe Lithuanian liberation and 
the example it can sen/e to other small 
republics. 



Awareness 



Continued from page 1 

bit at a time so there is more public 
acceptance, ol it,* he said. 

The other priority ol the commis- 
sion is to establish an open contain- 
er law. essentially prohibiting people 
(rom drinking and driving at the 
same time. 

Bailey noted that every driver \n 
the slate is required, i( there is rea- 
sonable cause, to take a BAG test 
or risk losing his or her driver's 
license. Individuals give their 
"impliad consent" lo a blood, breath 
or urine test for alcohol or other 
drugs when they receive their Indi- 
ana driver's license, 

"Indiana law also allows the refusal 
to take the test as evidence against 



a person in a court proceeding," 
Bailey noted, "The bottom line is 
Ihat in many communities in the 
state, relusing the test ends up cre- 
ating more serious sanctions than 
taking the test and tailing it." 

Bailey said that whether or not hol- 
iday roadblocks are operated is dic- 
tated by local law enforcement and 
prosecution philosophies. 

In many parts ol the slate there 
will be random roadblocks during 
the holidays, he said. Roadblocks 
have been ruled tiy the U.S. 
Supreme Court to be legal and not 
an inlringement to individual rights 
when done under generally accept- 
ed protocols. 

CoufXGsy lU News Service 





all varieties 

Coca C 

12 oz. cans .... 

Limit 6 , please 


ela, 12 


Open 
7 Days 
A Week 

pks. 


Offer Expires I2-I6-91 || 



Celebrate Christmas, 
in the 
Tropics 



Join us for The Downtown Bar &amp; Grill 

Christmas Holiday Bash 

Saturday Night, December 21 

and win a trip to the tropics! I ! 

Great Drink Specials 




The Event of The Year 




T 



New Years is happening 

right here at 
The Downtown Bar &amp; Grill! 

Tuesday, December 31, 1991 

$10.00 per couple 
Complimentary Party Favors 
Outstanding Drinl&lt; Specials 
Lots and Lots of GIve-Aways 



f9, 



o* 




DOWNTOWN 

BAR &amp; GRILL 

10 West Columbia Street • Fori Wayne. Indiana ,56802 
(219) 426-8220 



Sports 

Thundjy. Daicmbct 12. 1991 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Basketball action 

Mastodons stay unbeaten 



By Mark Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

The IPFW men's basketball leam 
conlinued to roll with a pair of wins that 
brought lis season record to 4-0. The 
Mastodons beat Purdue University at 
Calumel 95-80 at home on Thursday, 
Dec. 5. On Saturday IPFW traveled to 
Quincy College and defeated the 
Hawks 99-82, 

The 'Dons weie coming otf two deci- 
sive wins when they laced Purdue- 
Calumet and found themselves down 
42-41 at halHtme. IPFW turned up the 
delensive pressure and oulscored the 
Lakers 54-36 in the second fiall. 

Junior Sean Gitison paced the 'Dons 
with 23 points and 13 rebounds in 35 
minutes ol play. Senior Clarence Rich 
chipped in 14 points, lour steals and 
three assists while senior Kevin Shank 
hit 4-o(-5 from the field and both his 
free throws lor 10 points. Junior Andre 

, Walton dished out nine assists to go 
with eight points. 
AHhough the lans in Quincy Co[lege"s 

■ Memorial Gymnasium cast themselves 

'■ in the 'sixth man" role, their presence 
hasnl helped the Hawks this season. 

. Quincy fell to 0-7 with the loss to the 
'Dons. 

IPFW hold the Hawks to l2-of-34 
shooting in the first hall to go into the 
locker room up 43-35. The scoring 
pace picked up in the second half, but 
the result was the same as the "Dons 
outscored Quincy 56-47 to seal the vic- 
tory. 

Senior Eric Vaughn scored a career- 
high 20 points to lead five Mastodons 
tn double figures. He hit 3-of-S three- 
point shots while passing out seven 
assists and picking off three steals in 
26 minutes. 

Gibson grabbed 15 rebounds, had 17 
points and three assists. Also scoring 
in double figures for the 'Dons were 
junior Pat Murphy with 16 points and 
six rebounds, junior John Hohnstreiter 
with 13 points and 10 lioards, and Rich 
with 10 points. Rich has hit a three- 



pointer in 22 straight games, game, face highly regarded Gannon 

The Hawks, who hit just 30-of-76 (ield University on the road on Dec. 30, the 

goals, were led by Todd Sigel's 20 'Dons open Great Lakes Valley Confer- 

poinls. ence play at home against St. Joseph's 

IPFW, averaging over 90 points a College on Jan. 2. 





Senior Eric Vaughn drives against Purdue-Catumet. Vaughn Is averaging 
16.5 points a game. 

Photo courtesy LRC. 



ir-i Hicksville Ohio 

TAKE ST RD. 37 EAST 

3 levels of dance floors &amp; great drink prices 
Open eveiy Thursday, Friday &amp; Saturday 

9;00p,m, -2:30 a.m. 

Special New Year's Eve Party 

beginning at 9 p.m. 



Friday &amp;. Saturday: The 

Buck Brothers 
December 19 &amp; 20: 
David Todoran and 

THE 1 ITH hour 

December 21: The 

Hammerheads 

December 27: The Jury 

The Swaggering 

ROUGUES 

December 28: The 

Swaggering^ 
ROUGUES, 




fiarn^ 



PIZZA &amp; GRINDERS 

• 18 DilTcrcnt Oven Baked * Homemade Frtsli Jlreati 
Grinders ^''^^'^ ^^ily 

• Bountirul Vir/^s ' ^^'^^ &amp; W'"« 

• And More 

•Voted Best tn Allen County' 
EAT IN • CARRYOUT • DELIVERY 

Three Great Locations 

Game's North Gnrno's Georgetown Gamo's Southwest 
1602 Parnell Ave, 29 10 Maplecresl 64 L7 W. Jefferson 
483-6444 485-0196 432-6191 



AUTO-ONE 
INSURANCE 



WE'RE #1 FOR 

AUTO 

INSURANCE 

SB 22 FUNGS 

DWI ■ CANCEUED 

NO PRIOB INSURANCE 

YOUNG DRIVERS 

LOW RATES • EASY 
PAYMENT PLANS 

CALL US REGARDLESS 
OF YOUR RECORD 

"QUOTE HOTUNE" 



493-7449 



Frontier Computers 



Store Hours 

Mon-Thur 10-8 

Pri 10-6 

Sot 9-5 

Sun 12-6 



287 K-Mart Plaza North ■ Fort Wayne - IN ■ 46805 

Conveniently Located Arcroas from Glenbrook Square 

Voice 219-482-3456 Fax 219-484-8486 



OPEN 
7 DAYS 



Frontier 286-16 



80286-16 ProccsBor 

IMC Ham 

l.am 5.26- Drive 

101 Koy Keyboard 

20MIJ IDE Drive 

VGA Card 

14" 640 1 480 VGA Color Monitor 

8 Expansion Slots 

AMI Bioa 

200 WaU Power Supply 

Clock Calendar w/ Battery 

1 year Parta i Labor Warranty 

rSM Compallblo 

Microsofl Doa 5.0 

EighUn-Ono I nlcrgraded Software 

2ScriBl, 1 Pnnillcl. 1 Came 



i ^ 



Frontier 386SX-16 



i ^ 



Frontier 386-33 Cache 



Intel 386SX- 16 PTOCcB9or 

2MDRam 

l,2^fB6.^6■Dri™ 

1.44 MB 3.5' Drive 

101 Key Keyboard 

20NfB IDE Drive 

16 Bit VGA Card w/ 612K oxp. 1MB 

14- 640 X 480 VGA Color Monitor 

8 Expansion Slots 

AMIBloB 

200 WaU Power Supply 

Clock Calendar w/ Dallcry 

1 year Parta &amp; Labor Warranty 
IBM Compatiblo 
MicraaoftDosS.O 

MicroKjd Windowfl 3.0 &amp;. Mouse 

2 Serial, 1 PorBllol, 1 Game 



nCacho 



Intel 386-33 Procea 

4Mlinami64Kn 

1.2MB S.26-Drivo 

1,44MB S.e" Drive 

101 Key Keyboard 

20MB IDE Drive 

!6 Hit VGA Card «/ 612K exp, IMI) 

14' 640 X 460 VGA Color Monitor 

8 Expansion Slel3 

AMI Btos 

200 Watt Power Supply 

Clock Calendar w/ Battery 

1 year Par^ &amp; Labor Werranty 
IBM Compatiblo 

Microaoft Doa 5,0 

Microsoft Wlndowa 3.0 &amp; Mouse 

2 Serial, 1 Parallel, 1 Game 



$1376 I 



Chrismas Ideas 



Backtrak 250MB 
Tape Back Up 

Internal $299 

DR Dos 6.0 69,95 

MS-DOS 5,0 

Upgrade $59 

Cardinal 2400 Baud 
Internal Modem $69 



Panasonic Printers 

KX-P4420 
Laser Printer $719 

KX-P1180$149 

KX-P1123$199 

KX-P1124i $269 

KX-P1624 $359 



Okidata OL400 

Laser LED Printer 

OnlyS675 

Citizen Printers 

200-GX$154 
GSX-130 $234 
GSX-140-f $289 

Color Option $49 



CD-Rom &amp; Software 
Only $599 

Inludea: U^Worid Atlaa game 
Pak LansuBgCBof the Worid 
L Encycopcdla CD-lloma 

Diskettes 3.6" DSDD 
Qty 10 S4.00 

Qtronics Mouse w/Pad 

Only $29 
w/ Paint, Pocket &amp; 9-25 Adp. 



Software for Home &amp; Work 



WordPerfect for Dos 5,1 Upgrade $89 

WordPerfect for Windows Upgrade $129 

Lotus 1-2-3 &amp; Ami Pro for Windows Upgrade $149 

Microsoa Works for Windows $129 

Microsofl Publisher for Windows $129 

Microsoft Money for Windows $44 

cken 5,0 $29.95 with rebate 
Quicken for Windows $44,95 
MicrosoH, Excel Upgrodc $129 
Microsoft word for Windows 2,0 Upgrade $129 
PC Tools 7.1 w/ Central Point Antivirus $149 
Sound Blaster Pro $196 
Dae Easy Accounting 4,2 &amp; Payroll bonus Pack $129 



Wing Commander II $44,95 

Speech Accessory Pack $14.95 

Secret Missions Pack $19.95 

Where in The USA is Carmen Sandiego $34.95 

Where in America's Past is Carmen Sandiego 

$34,95 

Where in Time is Carmen Sandiego $34,95 

"Deluxe" Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego 

$44,96 



Sports 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



ThuiKlny, December 12. 1991 




Front row: Lisa Miller, Melissa Shipp, Shelly Sands. Second row: Dawn 
Dressier, Kim Recker, Mlchalle Conley, Pam Edwards, Amy Hogan. Third 
row: Asst. Coach Amy Hila, Ann Lueken. Head coach Eileen Klelntelter, 
Kelll Underwood, Asst, Coach Diana Small. Fourlh row: Amy Perkins, 
Jalma Lawrence, Jamie LaRue, Tina Menier. 

Photo Courtesy Athletic Department 

Lady 'Dons 
split fall to 3-2 





■•■••''% 


--•J 


ss 




'»» 


S 


W 


— '— ' 


■J 


j^fi^r 


gtm 


H 


^V^'^i 


ifeb 


1 


■mr c^&lt;^' J 


W.^ 




The Donelles, Ihe new iPFW dance squad, debut Jan. 2 during the basket- 
ball double-header vs. St. Joseph's College. 

Photo courtesy LRC 



Junior Pam Edward powers Inside (or a basket. Edwards averages 12 
points a game. 

Photo courtesy LRC 



WANTED: SUN &amp; PARTY HUNGRY PEOPLEIII 
SPRING BREAK: Cancun, Bahamas from $259.00. Includes 
roundtrip air, 7 nights hotel, parties, free admission and more. 
Organize a small group, Earn free trip. 1 (800) BEACH IT. , 



Bv Mark Donairi Ron 

By Mark Donaldson 

Sports Editor 

The IPFW women's baskelball team 
won Ihe first game ol the Bulldog Clari- 
on Classic in Big Rapids, Mich, on Fri- 
day before falling in the championship 
game on Saturday. To reach Ihe final 
game, Ihe Lady 'Dons downed the Uni- 
versity of Pittsburgh at Johnstown 80- 
76. In the championship, host Ferris 
State oulscored iPFW 30-24 in Ihe 
second half to seal the 62-57 «iclory. 

Against Pitt-Johnslown the Lady 
'Dons overcame a 35-point petior- 
mance by forward Amy Kessler for the 
victory. Kessler hit 12-of-20 field 
goais. including 4-of-7 from the three- 
point line, while grabbing eight 
rebounds and seven steals. 

IPFW led by senior Lisa IVIiilef-s 27 
points and eight assists. Miller also 
had six rebounds and two steals. 
Junbr Tina Menier tallied a ca/eer-high 
23 points wtiile hitting 5-of-7 ihree- 
point shots. Junior Amy Hogan 
chipped in 12 points, while senior 
Shelly Sands had 10 points and six 
rebounds. Junior Pam Edwards head- 
ed the Lady 'Dons' rebounding aHons 
with 10. 

Reluming for Saturday afternoon's 
title game the Lady 'Dons look a 33-32 
I inio Ihe locker room ai halftime 
and led 48-46 with 4:45 remaining. 



Ferris State oulscored IPFW 15-9 Irom 
Ihal point on to wrap up the victory. 

Miller, who is averaging 27 points per 
game, scored 22 while collecting sight 
rebounds and three assists. Edwafds 
had 16 points, 10 rebounds and three 
steals. Sands had six points and sev- 
en rebounds while playing all 40 min- 
trtes. 

Ferris State was led by Jeanette 
Banach's 22 points and 10 rebounds 
Miller was selected to the all-tourna- 
ment team along with Meniat, who had 
seven assists Saturday. 

The Lady 'Dons, 3-2 for the season, 
face Tri-State University tonight at 7 
p.m. in Ihe Athlellc Center, On Satur- 
day Grand Valley Slate University vis- 
its for a 3 p.m. contest. The Lakers 
defeated IPFW 101-64 last season. 




' Hockey • Football • Basketball 

Comic Books 





'and 
our very Best luisfiesfor 
a hap-py and prosperous 

1992 

from the staff oj The Communicator 



The Comm_nicator 

The only thing missing is 'TJ!" Don't put off your future! 
Call 481-6583 now to apply for the spring semester. 





oous 

The Ultimate 
New Years Eve! 

LIVE MUSIC 

by 





Mors d' Oeuvres 

&amp; Party Favors 

$5 Cover! 

Doors open Spm 

(1st come- 1st serve) 






486-1979 A 



