THE COMMUNICATOR. 1974-75. 



INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE 



THf 



COMMUNICATOR 




Two scenes from pnrdiie-Indiana Theatre's presentation of "A Taste of Honey" are 
pictured. Susy Hunter, as Jo. exchanges words with her mother's latest boyfriend, played 
by Jan Swank. Jill Armstrong-Ferry, pictured below, plays the mother, The presentation 



Faculty to have open hearing Nov. 15 
on proposed administrative changes 



the Ad Hoc Joint Faculty Steering 
Committee (AHJFSC). Written or oral 
suggestions on changes may be presented at 

The structure proposal as released by 
the task force earlier this week suggests a 
nearly lot.i) change in the way this campus 
runs. The Major changes are in the area of 
academic administration and student 

Indiana University and one Purdue. Under 
the proposed changes, 
be replaced by a single 

Dwight Henderson, the vice 
whould have responsibility (or 

Under the proposed str 

people reporting directly t 



Although noting 



a deans would 



rnmand also specifi 



they must function i 
i and argued againsi 



Indiana, Purdue fiscal walls 
to come tumbling down 



Some of the fiscal walls b&lt; 

Indiana University and Purdue Unii 
at the 1PFW Campus are scheduled It 
tumbling down-one of these days. 



gemenl Agreement ( 



agreemeiil from Purdue to I.U. thn 
requested by the Indiana hoard i 
Soptcinboi mooling, a letter from 
i-Aix'itlivc ViiT Presulcnl W George I 1 

111 I'lll-llllt'llMli ell- ;,,,,! MlcnO.ieChlOllI 



o President Donald b &gt;' 




We goofed 

Last week The Communicator rt-jxirrcif 
:hat the new vice chancellor would be 

school. This was apparently a lypographii .d 



Gates suggested the mailer might be 
resolved by compiling all revisions Into one 
draft. According to (he board member, 
revisions submitled by the schools have not 
been inearporated into a single agreement 

Although lie was unable to remember 
the partlculur Issue involved into the 
disagreement between the two boards, 
Gates said, "We have to gel together and 
redraw Iheconlracl IT IS UP INTHEAlEt 
MIGHT NOW AS Til WHAT EACH SCHOOL 
WILL AGREE." 

According to sources at a meeting of 
IPKW Chancellor Donald Schwartz's cabi- 
net last Week, the major stumbling block lo 
approval lo the KM A was the role Purdue 



■ I'MA would bo finally 

.'hill Ihoiemaiimi); issues 
ic :':.i„l ||,- -, ,„l I,, ,,,|| 



Ford said more Mian consolidation of all 
the revisions and correspondence is 
necessary. If only a compilation of revisions 
anil correspondences were required, appr- 
oval for the plan would be ennllngo pun 

the compilation. 

Ford expressed the opinion that "it 
must go beyond that." He added thai he Is 

to give Ihe idea Mnal approval. Because the 
Indiana General Assembly must approve 
any fiscal unity plan, Kord said there might 

lie political questions involved. 

reached on Ihe FMA, I 



.i duplication 



a tight," said Ford. 



distrust of Purdue by the I.U, trusties had 

entered into the decision to defer the 

agreement during I heir September meeting. 

Ford was unable to predict with any 



aspects of the n greet 



will rntifly U 
meeting, 
The Purdue Hoard of Trustees approved 



All-university senate 
goes back to committee 



Hoc Joint Faculty Steering 

"s weekly meeting yesterday 

;lc .ill-lliliversily senale lo 

i University Governance 



The taskforce will meet next Monday to 
give further consideration to the matter. 

Ubjeclions were raised by the com m it- 
lee over the proposal's failure to enumerate 
ihe respnnsiblities and powers that will be 



bout the number of n 



faculty," ho said, 
i, chairman of the 
Ihe proposal would I 



•xamplo mentioned i 



i and the full faculty ( 



proposal al ils last meeting. Studenl Hody 
I'residenl Husly Cane said thai the senate 
voled unanimously lo support the concept. 
He added that some senators expressed 



replace 
faculty. 



loli-lciieliinj: proh- ■■lon.ils 



e elected Iroiii laidevi.iry u 



governing body going to do?" 

ntralized power in a single body o; 
ion of decision-making at lowei 

tw Harper, chairman of thi 



o be delegated to the n&lt; 
[&gt;, and that all powers 
by Ihe constituency. 



Communicator, senate, 
fee extension supported 



meeting. The Sen 
Hoog as an assort: 
Supreme Court. 
The Communi- 

of advertisements 



■ passed unanimously. 
Clements, the resolu- 
j lee payment extension for 
hose students v. ho wen I Ihrough advanced 
egistration. The current payment deadline 
• Decern her ?.U riemenls volunteered to 






C AHJFSC task forces v 
Another major change 



of 



charge of all 



payroll, pe 
uunds, and safely a 
change here will be 



Concert sold out 



for Friday's Mahogany Rush 
totally sold out, according to 
erson of the student activity 



submitled 
academic 



Id be impossible 
proposed by the 



•:i.di-ci-|filli 

faculty. 



r directly. 



26 faculty. 15 
staff people. Ti 



INSIDE 



e problems students face when they try 



Columnists Stuart Lynn and George Foster make their debuts 
simultaneously in today's Communicator. It all happens on the Opinion 
page. 



Jean Tyler's review of the Carlpenters' i 
on "A Taste of Honey" and S 
section good reading. 



cert, Mike Snyder's article 
column make Arts &amp; Fun 



Ticket guide lines 



Early in September The Communicator reported that student activity card 
holders were being turned away from the Nektar concert because of no more 
tickets being available. At the same Ume Nektar tickets were being sold at a local 
record store to the general public at &gt;5 each. 

We reported the story because many of those turned-a 
complained to The Communicator. After w 
upset, judging from si 



OPINION 



We are our own oppressors 



&gt;f the comments made to people involved with the ticket 



We can now happily report that s 
took action to rectify the unjust s 
mandatory guidelines for ticket sales 



is listening to the complaints and 
lie Student Senate has passed 
s funded through student activity 



The guidelines require that student activity card holders be given priority ■;, 
tickets to events and programs funded by student activity fund allocations. The bill 
also lays down guidelines for publicizing ticket sales. 

The bill is more or less patterned after the internal guidelines use] by tin- 
Convocations Committee for vears Convo has placed its tickets on sale generally 
two weeks before the program. The first week only those with student activity 
cards could claim tickets The second week the tickets could also be purchased by 
non-activity card holders and the general public. 

The system worked well. Those programs that were sell nul.s. such u Paul 
Harvey and Gloria Steinem, came off relatively tree of complaints from students 
with cards but no tickets. 

The bill would prevent policies like I hemic used by the Sludenl Union Hoard lor 
the Nektar concert. This policy reserved hall of the tickets lor students, but the 
other half were reserved from students and lor the general public. 

The new guidelines may cause some financial hardships for groups like On? 
Student Union Board which depend mi outside ticket sales for added 
Student Senate will have to deal with that problem at budget time Bui the gross 
injustice lo activity card holders has Iwen abolished. 

It is not often thai students can get action on problems that i onfront them The 
Student Senate has shown that it is rcs]&gt;oiisive lo student opinion .&lt;w\ thai it will act 
with the best inlercsts ol the majority of students in mind. 

The student body of IPFW can be well pleased with its representative 
government. II should be a good year for the Students' Government. 



Suggestions for understanding 
ten years of drug abuse 



■'When more and more people ore 


one anymore Inflation today means 


thrown out ol work, unemployment results. ' 


shortages and recession. (Don t let the 




President and the Secretary of Commerce 


1,. it,. j,j,. rl | r,,„li.|,:,-, more lli.in Hi years 


fool you. When output falls and unemploy- 


ago when litUe systematic expertise was 






"sideways waffling" just docsn t make it,) 


Today all that has chained Our presidents 










Koirn! on here We can explain inflation, and 






for all that talent, we might as well be 


Prices Ro up because of increased demand, 




decreased supply, or some combination. 




(Both need not happen, for example supply 




may go up, but demand may go up faster, so 


abundance of partial explanations, depend- 


prices still rise i Further, in a syslem which 



•suit is that we define our freedom 
y things that enslave us. Mislead of 



of satisfied needs, and t 

an then take off and The stirrings oF disconl 

nimals, we accept strategically can yel ti 
freedom refers t 



lo aboul a system wh r &gt; 

h co-opts most elements 
"comfortable, smooth, 
ratic unfreedom. ." in 

c words of Marcuse? The answers of Mao 




Michael A. Snyder 

Managing Editor 



MELANGE 



Most students have poor credit 




A woman who appreciates the finer things in life. A woman who knows the value of reliable 
transportation. A woman who has a large disposable income -and knows how to spend it. Fact: 78.7 per 
cent of all owners of 1957 battered Ford pick-up trucks readTheCommunicator while waiting for their 
friendly neighborhood wrecker service to show up. You can reach this lucrative market for only 25 cents 
with a Communicator classified ($1.00 for anyone outside the university). 

Columbia City Madrid 




422-7696 



CAESARS 
SPA 



private rooms 

authentic rock sauna 

steam bath - stereo 

needlepoint showers 

free parking 





wren WiON-FRI 10 am to 12 pm SATURDAY 10 am to 4 pm! 



Al 1 December, May and Aug- 
ust graduates of Indiana and 
Purdue Universities are eligible 
to participate in this year's 
Commencement on Monday, May 12, 
1975 at 7:30 P.M. at the Mem- 
orial Coliseum. The Graduating 
Class Council will take orders 
for caps and gowns and sell 
Commencement invitations some- 
time in February. Watch for 
further details! Questions?? 
Phone the I.U. Alumni Office at 
482-5343. 



The Class of 1975 is in 
process of selecting a class 
gift. Suggestions may be for 



Custom officials 
confiscate 'drugs' 



Jim Sharp 

isiody of a jar 



. Customs ol 



ts grabbed ti 



it purple was "Don't laugh," Sharp ; 



ARTS &amp; FUN 



Carpenters bring smooth sound 



PIT does justice 
to 'Taste of Honey' 




Hany new b hall head 



SPORTS 



ree unsuccessful s 



after some delibera I ion bv the 


but wants (o &gt;avc fun white 






innediately named Larry Hoyle 


Hany was dissatisfied with 








and accepted the coaching 








realistic schedule was drawn up. 


Hany, a past HoaRlatid High 




School coach, is well known for 


with no athletic scholarships, 


his capability in handling vouiih 


faced competitive opponents 


men. He was highly wommon- 


Southern Illinois, Anderson, Tol- 


ded by several of Ihe Ma si of Ions 




who had played for him on the 


scholarship ball players. Last 



Basketball team 
to open season 



^^ J 


I r 


I! 




H ill 1 








HSL- .. 





WHALER, 
ss FRIES and COKE -r 
only 990 m. 




THE COMMUNICATOR 



There are still many positions available on the 
staff of The Indiana-Purdue COMMUNICATOR. 
If interested, see Mike Snyder, Dave Hill, or 
Mark Franke in Suite 215, Student Union 



. pi ■: 



live 11 1 record for Norwell last year. He played w 

I, lanky Jack Steppler performed outstandingly as the fourth 

lams Central and attended Tri-State College I; 

r J.ick isalsu j basket b.il'l pl.iytr .mil -.'.ill pni'i.ihly ^ 



t IPFW graduated 



e High School. Moor's fre 



