THE COMMUNICATOR 



VOLUME XIII ISSUE 1 



Indiana Univereity-Purdue Univemiiy al Fort Wayne 



AUGUST 14. 1981 




6&lt;MtcU^ t9^f'g2 4tctdMt UHdi(^ 



PAGE 2- THE COMMUNICATOR - AUGUST 14, 1981 

Activities 
complete 

education 

So, you've decided to get a college education at IPFW. 
GreatI You're just like thousands of others enrolled here for 
the faU semester of 1981. 

You've probably already decided what courses to lake — 
perhaps even purchased your books — and now you're 
preparing to settle into a schedule of studying and going to 
classes. 

But, wait! 

Have you made plans to participate in extracurricular 
activities on campus? 

While the main part of your education will, of course, come 
from classroom instruction in the courses you've enrolled in, a 
smaller — but equally important — part of education comes 
from involvement in school activities. 

IPFTV offers a wide assortment of student activities. Two 
fraternities and a sorority are active here; varsity and in- 
tramural sports are offered; the campus radio station needs 
volunteer help; Students' Government has openings; and the 
music and theatre departments welcome student input. 

Also, many clubs are active at IPFW — Friends of Animals, 
Forensic League, chess club, and others. Look each week in 
The Communicator "News Clips" columnfor times and places 
of the meetings. 

And, too. The Communicator is staffed entirely by students, 
and more writers and photographers are always appreciated. 

Yes, IPFW offers lots of activities from which you can 
gain your "complete" education. These activities will teach 
you to better communicate with your fellow man, develop your 
leadership abilities and form fl-iendships that can last a 
lifetime. 

But it's up to you to take the first steps toward becoming 
involved. 

Don't let your education turn out "less than complete." 




MICK FLEETWOOD 
THE VISITOR 





JOURNEY 

ESCRPE 



Whok Crying Now/Ston* In Lava 

Don't Stofi B«lin1n-jDud Or Afiv* 

KMpOnRumJn* 



• ■*•••••••••••••••••• 

Back to School 
SPECIALS 

•••••••••••••••••••• 

$6.49 Lp or Tape 




BLUE OYSTER CULT 

nREOFUNKNOWNORIGIN 

Induding: 

Bumirt' For Vou 

H«avy MeUk The BEack And Silver 

Soi» Survivor/ Joan Crawford 

Veteran CM Ttw Psychic Wws 




^ 



3627 North Clinton 
Fort Wayne 



MILES DAVIS 

TK MAN WITH THE HORN 



Givethee« 483-9290 



Sale prices good August 13-20 




AUGUST 14, 1981 — THE COMMUNICATOR — PAGE 3 




THE 
GREAT 
FROM 
FIRST FEDERAL 



APPLY FOR THE 
GREAT 3 TODAY! 

At our convenient 

North Anthony Office 
Just south of ttie campus at 

3221 Crescent Avenue 



PHONE 

484-8511 





^First 

"Your Personal Financial Center" 



GIVE YOU MORE! 

FIRST FEDERAL CHECKING ACCOUNT 

• Only $100 minimum-balance to avoid monthly service charges. 

• Earn 5%Vointerest compounded continuously. 

• Interest paid monthly on entire balance. 



FIRST FEDERAL VISA® CHECKING ACCESS CARD 

• -Looks and works like a credit card but really is a plastic check. 

• Transactions automatically deducted from your checking account and appear on 
your monthly checking account statement. 

• Plus world-wide acceptance and many other benefits. Ask us! 

FIRST FEDERAL VISA® CREDIT CARD 

• Costs you less to use because you pay only a 17.04 annual percentage rate instead 
of 18%, and there are no annual fees to cardholders. 

• Provides overdraft protection for your checking account. 

• Safer than carrying cash and gives you charge privileges plus cash where and when 
needed at home or worldwide. 



' SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OF FORT WAYNE 



%^nSi 



EQUAL HOUSINQ Vlfl|'.« 

LENDER *''V^ 



mJT 



Your Nike® 
Headquarters 
for footwear 
and apparel. 




Of course you can charge it 



WM' 


® 



Glenbrook Square 
482-4661 



C19B1.J C. Penoay Compiny. 



JCPenney 

amrunv. Inc. ^^ 



Southtown Mall 
447-1532 



PAGE 4 - THE C»MMUNICATOR — AUGUST 14, 19»1 

3,000 here get aid 



By KIM KUZEFF 

Copy Editor 

An estimated $4 million in 
financial aid wil] be distributed to 
over 3000 IPFW students for the 
1381-82 school year. About $2.5 
milliwi has been collected by 
students thus far. 

Though the amount of aid is up 
from last year's $2.5 million, an 
increase in the number of eligible 
students from I980's 2100 to this 
year's 3000 has caused the amount 
of aid to be presented to fall short 
of student need. 

"We have more students on 
financial aid and more dollars 
committed than ever before." said 
Mark Franke, director of financial 
aids. 

Over 4500 applications were 
processed this year, up from about 
2700 in 1980. Many of those who did 
not qualify for aid sent their ap- 
plications in after the March 1 
deadline. No state, NDSL ( national 
direct student loans), or work 
study awards were given to ap- 
plicants not meeting the deadline. 
Scholarships and grants were 
given to only the neediest students 
until March 31. 

Of the 3000 students qualified to 
get aid, none received enough to 
pay all of his or her fees this year, 
as it is common to award only a 
portion of each student's 
eligibility, Franke said. 

Students eligible for state 
awards received only 50 percent of 
the award they were qualified for, 
since there were twice as many 



eligible students for state awards 
as last year. All BEOG awards 
were cut by $180 for each eligible 
student- The NDSL program was 
cut by $100 million nationwide, 
with approximately $10,000 cut at 
IPFW. 

Franke said the financial aid 
office could probably help all of the 
eligible students in some way, even 
if it was just in helping them get a 
loan. 



Deadlines set 

There are some dates that 
students who received financial aid 
should be aware of, according to 
Mark Franke, director of Hnancial 
aids. 

Students awarded work study or 
NDSL will need to attend one of 
several meetings scheduled on 
Tuesday, Aug. 18, if they did not 
make it on July 29. Failure to at- 
tend may cause delays or can- 
cellation of the awards. Call the 
financial aid office for times for the 
meetings. 

Also, students who submitted 
their SER's (student eligibility 
reports) for a BEOG award should 
use that money to pay their fees 
prior to the deadline of Aug. 20. 

Award money not used for fees 
can be picked up beginning Aug. 31 
at the Bursar's Office. 



Suininertime 
'fun' recalled 



ByBOBBIKREICKER 

Dear Teach: 

One day while 1 was strolling 
past the Humane Shelter, an 8- 
pound Yorkie approached me with 
a leash and forced me to take it or 
risk a bit on the shin, thereby 
adopting me. She was so 
threatening that I named her 
Luwy, the only name that fits. 
Since then, we have been enjoying 
somewhat peaceful co-existence, 
taking turns sleeping in the bed or 
on the floor. 

llien, I decided to do some 
serious research. Daily, at random 
hours, I went to Shoaff Park and 
counted cop cars. The first day I 
tried a finger count. That being 
inadequate, I took an abacus the 
second day. By the aid of my 
study, I was using a 36-pound A[^le 
Modd No. 3 computer, which I 
strapped to Luwy's back. I'm 
sorry to say, she now resembles a 
wooly inchworra. 

Oh, yes! I got glasses to help me 
read. Now I can't see to walk! I 
keep forgetting that you have to 
hold your head UP for reading and 
DOWN for walking. And turning 
your head from side to side is a 
definite no-no. It's a Quick Dizzy, 
for sure! 

Thai there was a hot air tialloon 
ride over Fort Wayne. The balloon 
was okay and the air hot enough, 
but the basket was made by some 
crazy person who preferred tat- 



ting. Let me tell you, folks, it was a 
holy ride. My shoe fell through 
somewhere over a shoe repair shop 
on Anthony. Now that's Fate! 

I talked myself into and out of an 
aquarium several times. 
Currently, I'm dry. But those neon 
fish are compelling — especially if 
I can train them to swim in for- 
mation, spelling out "Eat At 
Joe's." 

Out of 1267 phone calls made on 
my push-button irfione. 7 rang 
through on the first try. So much 
for time and labor-saving devices. 
-And I took a trip to Harlan. I 
meant to go to New Haven, but 
that's the way it goes when you 
can't read a map. I can't wait to 
get a computerized car to teU me 
where to go. I have a feeling it'd 
better be air-conditioned! 

My big stock purchases were in 
cigarettes, tissues, and pillows. I 
figure smokers, snifflers, and - 
snoozers are here to stay, so I'm 
bound to get rich overnight . 

Oh, and I flirted outrageously 
with the DR's on WQHK, tUl one of 
them asked my age. I tried giving 
my phone number instead, but 
those guys are sharp for "Country 
Boys." 

Signed, 

Your student who really," 

truly wants an A 

for this paper — please, 

pretty please! 

Bobbi id'eicker 



' 










^- ^ 


K" T! 






... 


.uK.N^ 


^di^i 




i^^Hl 


'^.:2~'~ Wf 




i^ 




i 




H^ 




^ t^EL 


m 


I 


1 




^^^^1 






jijj^A 


m 


5 


■^E 








^sSBLl 


^ttIx 


T-sm 




2^^^.= .- 


FfjxmtJC^ti-aJfc. 


IST^^ 


■91 


■Hi 


IP 




HBp 




H^^'&gt;-- 


^ 


^•■..*S^ 


t^^ 


..■^:'^V 


■^^ 


- '**'=S^4,^^ 


^^™ 


m- 








'. 



Workers add the final touches to the Bummer reconstruction of the Walb Memorial Union Plaza. 
(Photo by Sandra Wiley.) 



Sandra V/iev 
Wayne Steff en 
Kim KuzEff 
Suvenegei 
Timothy J Ross 
RickPapaaan 
Bob Lang 



E[StQ^^n^allel 
M»^aglng Edtor 
Copy Editor 
ArtsEtftlor 
Sports Ertcor 
ftuto Editor 
Stalf Amst 



The Indiana-Purtue CcmmLncator is 
pubtehed on Thireday momuigs wtten 
dasses are m sesaoo by Intiana-Purdue 
SUident Newspapers. Inc , a not-for- 
profit OTQemsDon tncorporoted in tlie 
state □( bKtena. 



The Communicator 



or. in the case ol tjisi^icd 
i. that ol the edtonal board o( 
the newspaper, and cs rat to be con- 
strued as representng that ol the 
unrvBTsicy admnstrotion, the faoJcy. or 
the student body 

The edjtonal ofticss ol the Indiana- 
Purdue Commmcator and the busmess 
olfices of Indiana- Purdue Students- 
Newspapers. Inc. are located n Room 
215 of the Student Unxxi. Intiana- 
FVrdue UniversiCv Fort Woyne Campus. 
2101 CoteeimBhrd. East, f=ortVt/eyne, 
Ifxiana dSBOS . 



The Communcator welcomes letters 
to the E&lt;£tor Al letters shoiid be short 
acv] to the pomt. The editorial board 
reserves the "Qht to edit ol letters and 
to not print those wlich thay led are ob- 
lecUDnable. The wnter'a name, address 
and phone nurber should Do included on 
the letter but only the rone wd be 
printed Names wi tie withheld ufion re- 
quest by the writer AI letters must bo 
cyped-douUe spaced, end on one sde 
only Oeadkres for letters is the Fndoy 
before the week ol puWcotion 




Summer/Winter Sale 

Save 25-40% 

That's right Save 25% to 40% on select 
end-of-season Summer merchandise and 
pre-season skiwear. Save on every- 
thing from tenniswear and water 
sports equipment and accessories 
to ski parkas and select bibs, 
boots, and skis. But hurry selec- 
tions are limited and the Sav- 
ings are fantastic! Save even 
* more on limited selection of 
/■^/-^S^S footwear. . .50% OFF AND 




MORE. 



= SALE HOURS = 

MON-SAT 

10AM -6 PM 



The best of both seasons! 




6844 North Clinton 484-2604 





Athletic Center 



PAGE 2 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK —AUGUST 14, 1981 



Chancellor Giusti welcomes IPFW's new students 




CHANCELLOR JOSEPH GIUSTI 



Welcome to Indiana University — Purdue University at 
Fort Wayne for academic year 1981-82. Some of you may 
be here for the first time. Others may be returning after 
an alKence of a summer, or a year, or more. For still 
others, this may be the special year in which you will 
receive your diplomas. To all of you I extend warm 
greetings and my best wishes during your time at IPFW. 

This academic year should be a very exciting one as two 
major new campus facilities are opening this fall. Tlie 
Classroom, Laboratory and Office Building will enable us 
to add needed classroom and lecture hall space, to move 
more faculty into private offices, to provide music 
students with sound-proof practice areas, and to com- 
mence the Medical Education Program. The long-awaited 
Athletic Center will give real impetus to our recreational 
and athletic programs and will become a new focal point 
of student life. It took the efforts of many people over 
many years to make these buildings a reality, but from 
the very beginning and throughout the entire process, 
student interest, support, and involvement have been 
essential. It has taken a great amount of hard work, but 
you soon will be able to enjoy the fruit of your latwrs and 
of the students who have preceded you at IPFW. 

Of course, the buildings are not ends in themselves. 
They are important for what they will permit people to do 
in them. These new facilities will help the faculty to 
provide the intellectual and cultural environment 
necessary to the development of truly educated and 
socially valuable individuals. They will contribute to the 
fulfillment of IPFW's primary mission: to give men and 
women the opportunity to obtain an education of the 
highest quality. 

Also contributing to this mission are the services of- 
fered by your counselors, advisors, and all the support 
staff at IPFW. Still, the principal players are you and the 
faculty. I hope you will get to know each other well. 1 also 
invite you to become involved in student life and to par- 
ticipate in the variety of acfivities which take place on 
campus daily. If you take full advantage of these many 
resources, you should find IPFW to be a vital institution of 
higher learning in which each of you will be able to attain 
your educational goals, this year and for years to come. 



Attending Classes 

1. Is regular class attendance required? 

Yes. Although the method of recording attendance may 
vary from class to class, students are expected to attend 
every class meeting for which they are enrolled. 

2. What should I do if I am unable to attend a class? 
Contact the professor as soon as possible to make 

arrangements for make-up work. The only acceptable 
excuses for absence are generally related to illness and 
family emergency situations. Missing classes may 
seriously reduce the quality of your work and result in a 
poor grade. 

SCHEDULE 
ADJUSTMENT 

3. Can I drop classes any time I want to do so? 

No. A class cannot be dropped during the last four 
weeks of the fall or spring semester or during the last two 
weeks of a summer session. 

4. How do I properly drop a class? 

First you must get a drop-add form from your advisor 
or person who approved and signed your registration 
form at the beginning of the term. During the first 10 
weeks of classes, that is all you must submit to the 
Registrar's Office to officially drop the class. BUT you 
must submit the form to the Registrar's Office. Then 
during the llth and 12th weeks, the instructor and your 
academic dean must also approve each class to be 
dropped before you submit the form to the Registrar's 
Office. 

5. Can I add a class to my schedule after I have 
registered to begin a semester? 

Yes. Classes may be added with approval from your 
advisor during the first week of classes. The instructor of 
each class must also approve additions after that time. 

6. If I want to quit school before classes are over, what 
do I have to do? 

Follow the procedure described above for dropping a 
class. Not attending class is not the same as withdrawal. 
Students who do not withdraw properly from a course will 
receive a failing grade. 

CHANGING MAJORS 

7. Can I change my major if I change my mind on what I 
want to study? 

Yes. However you should contact the department that 
offers your new major. A change form will be sent to your 
department and to the Registrar's Office. 
GRADES 

8. What kind of grades are given credit courses? 
A-Highest passing; B; C; D-Lowest passing grade; E- 

conditionai failure (Purdue caily); F-failure; I- 
incomplete; W-withdrew; P-passing (under pass-not pass 
option); N-not passing (under ilass-not pass option, 
Purdue only) ; S-satisfactory. 



Classes And Grades 

student records are kept in the department, school, and 
the Office of the Registrar. 

9. What is the "Pass-Fail Option" for a grade in a 
class? 

fliis is an opportunity for you to take a course without 
undue concern about the effect it wiU have on your grade 
average because satisfactory work will be recorded as 
simply a passing grade. However, unsatisfactory work 
may count as an F in your GPA. You must have an ad- 
visor's permission to take a course imder these con- 
ditions. 

10. What does it mean if I get a grade of "I," in- 
complete? 

The grade of "I" means that you did not complete all 
requirements for the course by the end of the semester 
and that you and the instructor have agreed on a method 
to finish tiiose requirements. You must remember that if 
the requirements are not met by the appropriate deadline, 
that incomplete "I" grade will become an "F" failing 
^-ade. 

11. If my grades are bad, will I be able to continue in 
■ school? 

First, all grades that you have earned at this campus 
will be averaged together. (Generally, the first semester 
that this average is t)elow the university's or school's 
minimum requirement you wiU only be placed on 
probation, which means that you will be ^ven an op- 
portunity to raise your grade average throu^ additional 
classes the next time you plan to enroll. If you then con- 
tinue with poor grades, you will be subject to dismissal 
from the university. 

You have the right to request that the situation be 
reviewed and the process is called a grade appeal. For 
information regarding such procedures, contact the :y 
chairperson of the department responsible for teaching 
the course. 

12. If I am dismissed from the university, will I ever be 
permitted to return? 

Generally a student may request to be readmitted to the 
university after being out of school for at least one 
semester. Once the readmission is ai^roved, the student 
wiU be able to enroll in class but will again be placed on 
protiation until the minimt im grade average has been 
achieved. The request for readmission must be submitted 
one month before the start of that semester. 
OTHER ACADEMIC 
MATTER 

13. Under what conditions am I oHisidered to be a 
student in good standing? 

You shall be considered to be in good standing if not 
dismissed, suspended, dropped from the university 
without being readmitted, or on [robatioQ. 

14. What conditions will deny me the opportunity to 
raster for classes? 



The most conmion reason that you would be denied the 
opportunity to register is because you owe money to the 
university. If you are a student in good standing, other 
reasons would include misconduct and violation of any 
rules adopted and made public by the trustees. 

llA. If I feel that I have not been treated fairly with 
r^ard to a grade I received or an assignment I com- 
pleted, what can I do about it? 

You have the right to request that the situation be 
reviewed and the process is called a grade appeal. For 
information regarding such procedures, contact the 
chairperson of the department responsible for teaching 
the course. 

15. Can I transfer from the Fort Wayne Campus to 
another campus or school? 

Yes. However, any student who is considering a trans- 
fer should consult with her or his advisor to make proper 
arrangements well in advance of the intended time of 
transfer. 

CLASSES AND GRADES 

16. What is plagiarism? 

Plagiarism is claiming the work of someone else as if it 
were your own original work without fully identifying the 
real source. Plagiarism usually occurs when a student 
writes a paper, submits a project, or prepares a collection 
and includes quotes or ideas of materials from another 
source without acknowledgement. It is a serious violation 
of the statement of Student Ri^ts and Responsibilities, 
and can lead to disciplinary action. 

Information in the HaDdbook does not supersede official 
universify policies as published in the Bulletin and other 
universi^ puUications. 



mice 


Plwne Room 


(W« 


pnone Roem 


Admiuions 


«Z-56Z6Keniwll)3 


FinincuJ AMs 


W'Se^lKMIet 109 


■AlWelm/flecreation Sporls48!-S3Sl Unon 2t0 


•ficsl M and Htann 




Bookslore 


4S3'6I0OKcaiC) 




m-^MUnonOZT 


Bursal 


*B2-i4teKemer G57 


JOO LociUon Setvce 


4S2S64'UnKn 1)3 






Minorny Srudenl/CETA 


«S2-5616 Union IIB 


anfl Placonerl 


4a?-S6&lt;6Union 113 


■Nillonal SiitOem Ewnange 




Cmw Care 


4B?-5e&amp;0Co&lt;r&gt;ffot 


Proorim 


482-S3S3Unon111 




Sleiinorn 4 


PiBcaas/negelfiMn 


&lt;B?-5S5I Kmlet 107 




KMKon Ruos 'Stuoenr Academic 




•Counseling and Teslmg 






4B2-B393Unian11l 


Eences 


482-5656Union 113 


S'udeni AclMlies 


&lt;S2-56ieUnKio tlS 


Dean lor SluOetil Semces 


4a?-5616Union 118 


SluOenl Carpow 


M2S3S31Inion225 








482-5353 Un«)n 225 






SruOeni Leoal Sennces 


4e2-53M Union 22S 






ItanWonal Slullies 


4a2-5586Kemei iiB 


Doaljled SluOenl Semce 


4S2-56I6 Union lie 


ludxing Cenler 


*S2-ii6f&gt; Kernel iib 


Donnnonet/ OH-Cdtnpus 




VHeians Artaus 


482-54)IKenJei 107 



Houang 482-56l6Uf.. . . 

-AjWenc/Rtcreation Spods movtng lo AiWete Cenler 210 wiwime in SepKmoer 

'CMistung ano Testing Services moving la Union 210 son^une m SepIsnOei 

r — ... ... Hjaati IniormaiioQ mwing u&gt; Atruaic Cenret 202 someunc in StottmOei 



nl Academe bxinseLng ii 



1 10E somaime in Sepiemow 



AUGUST 14, 1981 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — PAGE 3 



IPFW Administrators 




Dr. Josepfa P. Giusti begins his third academic year as 
Chancellor of Indiana University-Purdue University at 
Fort Wayne this mraith. As chief administrator of IPFW 
he is responsible to both the Purdue and Indiana 
university presidents and their boards of trustees for 
carrying out the mission and policies of both universities 
on this campus of over 10,000 credit-seeking students. 

Giusti came to IPFW from The Pennsylvania State 
University in 1979. At Penn State he had served as director 
of the 3eaver Campus since its establishment in 1965. 

The chancellor is the author of over twenty articles in 
various journals and has made several contritiutions to 
textbooks, both in administrative financial management 
and in education. 

Giusti received his B.A. degree from Villanova 
University and his M.S. and Ed.D. degrees from Penn 
State. He also received an honorary doctor of letters 
degree from St. Vincent College "for his achievement in 
education and in public service. ' ' 

The chancellor's interests include the field of medicine. 



Giusti serves the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute 
of the National Institutes of Health in two capacities: as a 
member of the national advisory committee of the 
Hemolytic Disease Study Group and as a consultant to the 
Cooley's Anemia study t)eing done by the Division of Blood 
Diseases and Resources. He was also a memtier and 
chairman of the Board of Directors of the Medical Center 
of Beaver County and is now Director Emeritus. 

A well-deserved tribute to the chancellor was the 
naming of the amphitheater on the Beaver Campus the 
Joseph P. Giusti Amphitheater in 1380. 

In Fort Wayne, Giusti currently serves as a member of: 
the Joint Advisory Council of the Fort Wayne Medical 
Education Program; the Fort Wayne Corporate Council; 
the Board of Directors of Fort Wayne Public Television, 
Inc.; the Executive Committee of Fort Wayne Future, 
Inc.; and the Fort Wayne Educational Foundation. His 
speaking engagements are extensive as he fills the role of 
chief spokesman for the university in the community . 

He and his wife Marie have three daughters. 



JOSEPH P. GIUSTI 




The vice chancellor and dean of the faculty is Dr. 
Edward A. Nicholson, who came to IPFW a year ago from 
Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio. 

At Wright State, Nicholson served as Dean of the 
College of Business and Administration. His Ph.D., M.A., 
and B.S. are all from Ohio State University. In addition to 
his administrative and research contributions to higher 
education, Nicholson has served on the faculty of Wright 
State University, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State 
University, and Ohio Dominican CoU^e. 

The chief academic officer at IPFTV is involved in a 
number of professional organizations, including: the 
Planning Executives Institute Editorial Committee, the 
Academy of Management, and the National Labor Panel 



of the American Arbitration Association, He is currently 
serving as a member of the Initial Accreditation Com- 
mittee of the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of 
Business. In 1977, Nicholson was elected to Beta Gamma 
Sigma, thenationalbusiness honorary fraternity. 

A native of Ohio, Nicholson has a long history of per- 
sonal involvement in community affairs. While at Wright 
State, he was a frequent consultant to business and 
government leaders in the areas of long-range planning, 
organizational design, and personnel and labor relations. 

Since coming to Fort Wayne, he has become active in 
Rotary, is on the Board of Directors for Uie Historic 
Riverboat Cruises, and is involved with other local groups 
such as the Horizons Council and Fort Wayne Future. 

Nicholson and his wife Kathie have four children. 



EDWARD A. NICHOLSON 




JOHNR.CARNAGHI 



Mr. John R. Camaghi, vice chancellor for financial 
affairs, joined IPFW administration ten months ago. 
Before coming to Fort Wayne, Camaghi held several 
positions at Purdue University in West Lafayette, in- 
cluding the director of the budget office and assistant 
director of wage and salary administration, during his 
thirteen years at that campus. 

As the chief financial officer for IPFW, Camaghi is 
responsible for the management of all financial and 
business affairs of the campus, including physical plant 
operations, controller functions, purchasing, payroll, 
personnel, budget, police and safety, and auxiliary ser- 
vices. 

Camaghi earned his bachelor of science degree in 
marketing from Southern Illinois Universi^ in 1967 and 
was the recipient of the Wall Street Jonmal Award for the 



highest graduating grade index in the marketing 
department. He received his master of science degree in 
education administration from Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, in 1975. 

Other honors he has received include selection for Phi 
Kappa Phi Honor Society and selection as an Outstanding 
Young Man in America. Active in professional 
organizations, Camaghi t)elongs to: the Indiana 
Association of College and University Business Officers, 
the National Association of Collie and University 
Business Officers, and the American Management 
Association. He is involved in the John Purdue Club and is 
a member of the Fort Wayne Elks Lodge. 

He maintains an avid interest in sports and is involved 
in the coaching activities of numerous YMCA programs. 

Camaghi and his wife Judy have one son. 




He is a member of Phi Delta Kappa, the American 
Personnel Guidance Association, the Indiana 
Schoolman's Club, the Natiixial Vocational Guidance 
Association and the American School Counselors 
Association. Ulmer was selected as Teacher of the Year 
for District 11 in 1959 and was named Outstanding Young 
Man of the Year in Logansport in 1960 and 1962. He 
received the Outstanding Comuelor Siq&gt;ervisor Award for 
the State of Indiana from the Indiana Persouel and 
Guidance Associaticm in 1976. 

Ulmer serves on the Board of Directors of the 
Associated Churches and the Spinal Cord Injury Foun- 
dation, and chairs the Fort Wayne CETA Advisory 
Committee. He was selected an honorary lifetime 
member of the boards ct both the Purdue at Fort Wayne 
Alumni Society and the lU at Fort Wayne Alumni 
Association. 

Ulmer and his wife Harriett, who is a teadier in the 
E^ast Allen Coun^ Scbocto, have Hve children. 



JOHN P. ULMER 



PAGE 4 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 14, 1981 



Activities, activities, activities 

Student activities &amp; organizations 
Benefit from an extra-curricular experience! 



During the 79-80 school year there were 46 recognized 
student organizations on campus. The different types 
are: Greeks, special interest, departmental, religious, 
etc. 

What kind of activities are there on campus? 

The Student Union Board of Governors, SUBOG, the 
cultural and entertainment branch of students' govern- 
ment, plans activities throughout the year from which 
activity card holders may benefit. There are weekly 
movies, monthly off-campus dances, lectures, major 
concerts, ski trips, plant and candle sales, visiting artists, 
and many other interesting events. The activity card, 
which is issued to students having nine credit hours or 
more, is required for free admission to most SUBOG 
events, (All activities are open to the public with charge, ) 

It also admits you to all P,I.T. theatre productions at a 
discounted price. The Daycare Center gives a fee 
reduction to Activity Card holders. 

Tlie Student Senate is the legislative branch 
representing the student body. Students having problems, 
complaints, or suggestions should inform one of the 
eighteen student senators, The Senate offers programs 
such as book sales, ID pictures, and free legal advice. 
Meeting once a week throughout the academic year, it 
legislates on the use of activity fee funds, rules and 
regulations, and campus committee appointments. 
Students interested in becoming Involved in students' 



government or in serving on one of the following com- 
mittees should contact the offlce in room 225 of Walb 
Memorial Union. 

In March a general student election is held, at which 
time a Student Body President, Vice-president, and 18 
Senators are elected At the same time 10 SUBOG 
members are elected. However, sometimes during the 
year SUBOG members or Student Senators have to resign 
for one reason or another, thus creating a vacancy that 
can be filled by anyone who meets the qualifications. 

What other activities are offered in the Union? 

Pocket billiards, music listening room, lounge areas 
with pianos, pinball, ping-pong, physical exercise room, 
arts and crafts area, and darkroom are available in Walb 
Memorial Union. 

Student Newspaper — The Communicator is published 
every Thursday during the fall and spring semesters. 
Their office is located in the Walb Memorial Union. The 
Communicator staff is always looking for writers, typists, 
ad salesmen, etc., so if you have any of these talents they 
would like to talk to you. 

Athletic Advisory Committee — This committee ap- 
proves budgets, schedules intercollegiate sports, defines 
elieibility poHcies, and acts as advisor to the chancellor. 



Chancellor's Student Ad\'isory Committee — The 
members of this committee lunch with the chancellor 
once a month to keep him informed of student views and 
needs. 

University Traffic Appeals Board — This board hears 
traffic ticket appeals from any student, staff, faculty, or 
non-campus person. It meets randomly, depending on the 
number of appeals fiJed at Safety and Security. 

Advisory Committee for Handicaoped Persons — This 
committee studies the needs and concerns of disabled 
students and staff and makes recommendations to the 
chancellor for improvements or modifications. 

Traffic and Parking Advisory Board — This committee 
reviews poUcy on traffic laws and traffic violation 
penalties. 

Day Care Center Committee — This committee, which 
meets informally once a month, is concerned with 
operational matters of the Day Care Center, The Dean of 
Student Services, one student, and parents of day care 
children serve on the committee, 

Indiana-Purdue Student Newspaper Board — This 
committee consists of three students, two faculty, the 
Dean of Student Services, and the chief of staff of the , 
newspaper. Its purpose is to oversee management, ap- 
point editors, and approve budgets and major contracts. 




SUBOG FaU activities 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 

August 28 Gal-acquainted Dance - North Room - Coliseum - 

8:00 p.m. 
Seplemtwr 2 LUAU - Pig RoasI - Tahtlian Dancing ■ 

Walb Union Plaza ■ 1 1 ;00 a.m. lo 1 :00 p.m. 
Seplemtjct 1 1 Dance - Location to be announced 
Seplember 18 Dance and Smorgasbord - Stiiloli Hail ■ 7:00 p.m. 
October 23 Hayride - to be announced 
October 28 Paula Nelson - Financial Commentator ■ Walb Union - 

8:00 p.m. 
October 30 Halloween Costume Dance - Location and time to be 

announced 
November 6 Amaiing Kreskin - ESP Expert 
November 16 John Bayley in Concert - Lounge - noon - Walb Union 

Ballroom - 8:00 p.m. - Walb Union 
November 18 Irving R. Levine ■ Courtesy ol ttie Addison Locke 

Roactie Memorial Fund Committee ■ Walb Union - 8:00J 

p.m. 
Ctieck City Cablevision Channel 23 for ongoing lisl of activities ' 



Alumni activities 



The alumni body of IPFW now numbers over 13,000. 
Alumni reside in nearly every state of the union as well as 
several foreign countries. Tbis year's commencement 
will be the school's fifteenth and over 1,000 degrees will be 
awarded. 

Our IPFW alumni are affiliated with the Indiana 
University Alumni Associatim and the Purdue Alumni 
Association. Governed by a volunteer board of directors, 
the Alumni Associations each year sponsor numerous 
programs and activities that provide the alumni an op- 
portunity to return and visit the campus. The Associations 
also publish several alumni newsletters and undertake 
projects and programs which benefit the campus. 

Among these programs, the alumni are interested and 
dedicated to serving the students. Each year the alumni 
sponsor the Oldtimers' Soccer Ganme (varsity vs. 
alumni), Graduating Class Council, a reception for 
student leaders, publication of the IPFW pocket calendar, 
and Red and Gold Carpet Day, a meeting for area high 
school students interested in attending IPFW. 

The Alumni Office is located in Kettler Hall, Room 111. 
Telephone 482-5343. 



Campus Ministry 




Room 291 B 



infLi 482-5616 



or 
485-9615 



Sponsored by Greater Fort 

Wayne Campus Ministry Inc. and 

the Diocese of Ft. Wayne-South 

Bend Inc. 



GALS 
AIMD GUYS 

STROLL ON BY FOR 

BACK-TO-SCHOOL 

SA VINGS! 

JEANS • WESTERN SHIRTS • BIB OVERALLS 
JACKETS • SWEATERS • DRESS SLACKS 
PAINTER PANTS AND TOPS OF ALL KINDS 



All Famous Brand IMame 
Jeans At Discount Prices 



Save 15% with your student discount card 

GLENWAY 

BARGAIN CENTER 

3820 Coldwater Road 
Across From Glenbrook Penney's 

Mon.-Fri 10-9. Sat. 10-6. Sun. 12-5 



A UGUST 14, 1981 -THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK -PA(ffi 5 



RoFFlER'^ 



HairCsnter 

iti a mattei of ituU 



For hair that gets 
noticed . . . trust the hands of 
the professionals at The Hair 
Center. 

Everyone's hair is different — The Hair 
Center works with your hair texture and 
the shape of your face to create a style that 
compliments you. 

Roffler hair care products are used exclusively ... so be beautiful — when 
you see the difference you'll stop settling for less. 

The Hair Center . , . after all, it's a matter of style. 



The Hair Center • SOUTH 745-0531 
3402 Wayne Trace • Ft. Wayne 
STYLISTS: Rob Van Cleave 
Mollie Amstutz 
Bill Rabourn • Mel Kennedy 



The Hair Center • NORTH 463-4463 
5316 Coldwater Rd • Ft, Wayne 
STYLISTS: Sue Van Cleave 
Ken Ofwig 
Hetdy Bolenbaugh 



South: 8am - 6pm Tues thru Fri; Sam - 4pm Sat. 
North: 9am - 6pm Tues thru Fri; 9am - 4pm Sat. 

Appointments preferred but not necessary. 



SMALL CAR OWNERS.. 

let FORT WAYNE 
FOREIGN CAR 



HELP YOU WITH 




Complete Service 

iroport Parts 

Used Import 
Vehicles 




"VOUVO 

SUBARU 



2604 East Wasliingtan Blvd. • Ft. Wayne, In. 46803 
HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. • Call (219) 422-4423 




PAGE 6 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK - AUGUST 14, 1981 



Counseling and 
Testing Services 



Services, services, services 

National Student Exchange Placement Services 



"U I need to discuss a personal problem with someone, 
wherecanlgo?" 

The Office of Counseling and Testing Services located in 
Walb Memorial Union Building, Room 113. is staffed with 
professionally trained counselors who are available to 
assist you in knowing yourself better, making decisions, 
dealing with anxiety, choosing a career, improving in- 
terpersonal relationships or any other issues which may 
be stressful or challenging. 

"I understand that you have a test that tells a person 
which career he or she should choose? " 

It would be nice if such a test existed — but it doesn't. 
There are, however, a number of tests available which 
may provide some useful information, in conjunction with 
counseling, to assist you In your search. 

' 'What other services are provided by your office?" 

In addition to the personal and career counseling and 
testing services, we can provide information for persons 
interested in such national testing programs as the 
College Level Examination Program ( CLEP) , the 
Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), the Graduate 
Management Admission Test (GMAT), the Miller 
Analogies Test (MAT) and others. This office also 
coordinates the English-Math Placement Testing 
Prop-am. 

"How can I take advantage of these counseling and 
testing services? " 

Either call (219) 482-5656 or come to the Walb 
Memorial Union Building, Room 280 and ask to make an 
appointment with a counselor. The process may require 
one or several sessions. These services are available to all 
students, prospective students, alumni, faculty and staff. 
Our goal is "to help you help yourself." 



Student Job 
Location Service 



The Job Location Service is an employment service for 
Indiana -Purdue students seeking part-time employment 
off campus. We are located in Room 113 in Walb Memorial 
Union, 

The Job Location Service actively recruits employemnt 
opportunities within tiie Fort Wayne area, TTie office 
serves as an employment referral (not Placement) center 
which brings many off-campus part-time employment 
opportunities to a central location on campus. Jobs of 
almost every type, skilled and unskilled are available. 
Examples of jobs that have been listed in the past range 
from housecleaning and waiter-waitress jobs to market 
researchers and lab technicians. Participation in a 
Handyperson pool, Babysitting pool, and Typing pool is 
also open to students who are interested in temporary odd 
jobs such as yard work, inventory work, moving, etc. Pay 
rates vary according to the job and the employer. 

Job Location Service maintains a list of current job 
openings for students to look at in our office. Upon com- 
pletion of an application, we vrill attempt to refer jobs to 
students as they pertain to individual employment skills 
and preferences. The service is available for use by all 
Indiana-Purdue students with a validated IPFW I.D., 
class schedule, or fee statement. 

Career Development 
and Placement 

The Office of Career Development and Placement, 
located in Room 113, Walb Memorial Union provides 
services to both students as well as all Indiana University 
and Purdue University alumni regardless of the campus 
they attended. 

Those services include free registration with the 
Placement Office, help writing resumes, information 
about the job outlook, salary information, cost of living 
information throughout the United States, career coun- 
seling, and career-interest testing at a modest fee. 

Registration with the Placement Office provides 
students and alumni with an opportunity to interview with 
over 150 companies and public agaicies that recnnt on 
campus and to receive a bi-weekly sunmiary of jobs listed 
with the Indiana-Purdue Placement Office at Fort Wayne. 
In addition, the career library, located in Room 113 of the 
Union, contains numerous books and ocr'^tlun hneis 
describing hundreds of ccCupaiions as well as an ex- 
tensive employer literature file. 

For information aboii regifitering with the Placement 
Office, call 482-5646. 



An exciting opportunity awaits students through the 
National Student Exchange Program. Have you ever 
dreamed of going to school in Montana, New Mexico, 
South Carolina, Wisconsin, or perhaps even Hawaii, and 
not be charged out-of-state fees? Your dream could come 
true by participating in the National Student Exchange 
Program. 

The NSE program provides the oM«rtimity for IPFW 
students to spend a year of study in residence at a 
member institution during their soiiiomore or junior 
years. Participating students remain enrolled at IPFW 
while on exchange, and credit earned on exchange is 
recorded as regular degree credit. It is an ideal way for 
students to broaden cultural and educational horizons 
while progressing toward their local degree objectives. 

So if the National Student Exchange Program sounds 
exciting and interesting to you, stop by Room UOE Kettler 
Hall and ask for more details. 



Student Academic 
Counseling Services 

Assisting students with academic schedules as well as 
personal problems is the role of the Student Academic 
Coimseling office. Staffed with professional counselors 
and student para- professionals, the office is open from 8 
a.m. - 5 p.m. everyday and after 5 p.m. by appointment. 
You may stop by the office in room llOE of Kettler Hall or 
call 482-5393 for assistance. Information shared with a 
counselor is strictly confidential. 

The counselors are trained to meet the particular needs 
of the undecided student attending Indiana-Purdue. So if 
you are still uncertain about your major or have questions 
regarding the university, the Student Academic Coun- 
seling Office can help. 



What careers are best in terms of employment 
possibiUties? 

While it is important to investigate the future predic- 
tions relative to the numt)er of job openings in various 
fields, this should not be the primary reason for ctwosing 
a specific career. Information about the chanc^ of em- 
ployment in various careers may he obtained from 
various career resource materials, such as the 
"Occupational Outlook Handbook," available in the 
([^reer Development and Placement Office. 

What type of help is available for the person who doesn't 
know what he wants to do? 

The Career Development and Placement Office 
provides one to one counseUng, credit career planning 
courses, non-credit career planning courses, and career 
woiiishops for the individual seeking help with career 
decisions. 



Services for 
disabled students 



The Services for Disabled Students office provides 
support services for any student with a disability. 

Some of the services offered are readers for the visually 
impaired, textbooks on cassette tape, notetakers and 
interpreters for the hearing impaired, special equipment 
and materials, orientabon to the campus, exam proc- 
toring, and academic counseling. 

All buildings on campus are accessible, and interior 
facilities are marked for accessibility with the wheelchair 
logo. The Services for Disabled Students office also offers 
assistance in the winter months for persons in 
wheelchairs having difficulties getting from the parking 
lot into the classroom. 

Any student who has physical or other impairments 
which in some way may hinder academic achievement 
should either call 482-5616 or come to the Walb Memorial 
Union Building, Room 118A. 




AUGUST 14, 1981 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK - PAGE 7 



Assistance, assistance, assistance 



Financial Aid 

Financial aid is designed to assist needy students in 
financing their coUege education. The Financial Aid 
Office uses grants and scholarships, loans, and part time 
employment, either singly or in combination, as the 
means to provide this assistance. 

Even though most aid is restricted to full time un- 
dergraduate students, some programs are available for 
part time or graduate students. Interested students must 
file an IPFW financial aid apphcation and a Financial Aid 
Form (FAF) to be considered. The applications are 
reviewed confidentially by a Financial Aid Counselor and 
the student is awarded aid based on his or her calculated 
need and the availability of funds. 

Students are urged to apply by March 1 for the following 
academic year. Applications are accepted after that date, 
but late filers run the risk of inadequate funds to meet 
their need. Also, early application assures a student that 
his or her forms will be processed in time for fall 
registration. 

The Financial Aid Office, located in Kettler 109, has a 
staff of trained counselors to assist students with the 
apphcation process. 

The regular office hours are 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday 
through Thursday; 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday. If necessary, 
appointments may be made at other times. 

Transitional Studies 

On the way to a degree, you may need some help. 
Transitional Studies can make the critical difference : 

1. The Developmental Skills Center (Kettler 118) offers 
you free help in developing reading, writing, math and 
study skills (note-taking, textbook reading, test-taking) 
on a drop-in basis, day and evening, during the school 
year. 

2. You can find in the Developmental Skills Center free 
tutorial help on some introductory level courses. We also 
attempt to match people needing tutorial help in ad- 
vanced courses with available tutors. Financial 
arrangements for tutoring for other courses must be 
made by students and tutors involved. 

3. Credit course work in individualized sections of 
English W130 (principles of Composition); Education 
X150 (Reading-Learning Techniques I), a reading-study 



skills course; and Education X151 (Reading-Learning 
Techniques 11), a stu{ty skills course which emphasizes 
the apphcation of study skills to real coUege courses; 
selected sections of Math ni, which maintain a smaller 
than average student-teacher ratio for this beginning 
level math course. 

4. The RAP (Returning Adult Place) Program for 
students coming to the university after being out of school 
for one or more years. RAP features a free monthly 
newsletter on university services or procedures and a 
monthly meeting dedicated to improving the students' 
study ability or helping them develop personal skills. To 
get the newsletter and meeting information, stop in 
Kettler 118, or call us at 482-5586. 

How c:m a person take advantage of Transitional 
Studies' services? 

To arrange for tutoring, or to get more information 
about RAP activities, come into the Developmental Skills 
Onter, or call 482-5586; to enroll in a Transitional Studies 
credit course, call the Transitional Studies office at 482- 
5655. 

Housing Information 

There are no housing facilities located on the IPFW 
Campus, however, the Student Activities Office dispenses 
housing information upon request. There are dormitory 
facilities available tor men and women at nearby 
(Doncordia Theological Seminary, and dormitory-type 
facilities available for women only at the YWCA. The 
Student Activities Office does not approve or disapprove 
housing, it merely serves as a "clearing house" for 
housing inrormation. 

Grade Appeals Procedures 

The Educational Policy Conmiittee is currently 
stui^^g a draft of a uniform grade appeal policy for the 
IPFW campus. Until this document has been approved by 
the Indiana-Purdue Faculty Senate, the following 
procedure should be followed by a studoit who has 
evidence or believes that evidence exists to show that an 
inappropriate grade has been assigned as a result of 
prejudice, caprice, or other improper conditions such as 



mechanical error or assignment of a grade inconsistent 
with those assigned other students. Additionally, a 
student may challenge the reduction of a grade for alleged 
scholastic dishonesty. 

In appealing a grade the burden of proof (in writing) is 
on the student, except in the case of the alleged academic 
dishonesty, where the instructor must support the 
allegation ( in writing) . 

Informal conference attempts must be made to resolve 
grade grievances and appeals at the lowest level. 

( 1 ) Course instructor. If the grievance in question is not 
resolved at this level, the student should seek counsel at 
the next level. 

(2) Department chairperson. Appeals at this level will 
be heard either by departmental committees or mediated 
directly by department chairpersons. Cases unable to be 
resolved at this level should be referred to the: 

(3) School-Divisional Dean or Coordinator. Informal 
school-divisional txiards or committees may be 
established to assist deans and coordinators in mediating 
student grievances. Unresolved appeals from this level 
should be directed to the: 

(4) Office of the Vice Chancellor and Dean of Faculty. 
The Vice Chancellor and Dean of Faculty will ultimately 
make a final written decision on all academic grade ap- 
peals reaching this office after ascertaining that all 
previous levels of appeall have been duly followed by all 
parties involved. 

Veterans^ Services 

Can I use my GI Bill education benefits to attend IPFW? 

Yes, it is a simple [Focedure of submitting an ap- 
plication. The Veterans* Services office is located in 
Kettler Hall, in the R^strar's Office. Usually, the only 
form that is needed is your discharge paper (DD214) . 
How long must I wait before I receive my tint check? 

Normal processing time for a new application is from 
45-60 days of application. If your check is not received 
within that period, please take advantage of the Vet-Rep- 
On-Campus te assist you. 
Are there other Veteran services offered at IPFW? 

Yes. The Vet-Rep-On-Campus has information dealing 
with all phases of Veterans' Benefits, or can refer you to 
the proper community agencies. 




^^^ There's nothing wrong with 
a little materialism. 



We'll admit it. One of the selling features of Army ROTC 
is just plain cold cash. ..nearly $2000 during your junior 
and senior years of college. There's also the opportunity 
for full-tuition scholarships. And a $10,000 a year salary 
as an Army officer when you graduate. 

But we've got other good things to offer you, too. 
College courses which challenge you both mentally and 
physically. Management training and experience you'll 
find valuable in civilian as well as military jobs. And 
instant leadership responsibility in your first job after 
college. 

If any nf this interests you, check nut Army ROTC, 
And even if you enroll just for the money, youll graduate 
with something worth a lot more.. .gold bars of an Army 
officer. 



ARMY ROTC. 

LEARN WHAT 

IT TAKES TO LEAD. 



For More Information Contact: Major Mike Nelson In Trom 4 

or Call 482-5247 



PAGE 8 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK - AUGUST 14, 1981 

Athletics, athletics, athletics 



IPFW Athltttic Program 
Want to b« wharo the action ia? 
B« a part of the IPFW athretic pragrami 
Athletic Canter 

The Alhlelic Cenler, scheduled (or occupancy tn Ihe (all of 1981, has 
live facquetbaD/handball courts, ihree lull-size haskelball courts, and = 
indoor jogging track The ajea around the mam basketball court win pro- 
vide seating tor 2,500 spectators There will also be tacilllies (or indoor 
tennis, volleyball, gymnastics, wrestling, weighllifting, lencing, and 
dancing. OKices (or athletics and student health services are located on 
Ihe upper level, two classrooms and a lecture hall on the main lloor, and 
locker rooms are located on ihe lower level of ihe building 

Utilization of Ihe facility will be subject to (he following regulations. 

A. Athletic Cenler Semester/Session User Fee Schedule 
User Classfdcallon Academic Semester Summer Session" 

1, Students enrolled In Students enrolled in nine $10 
or mote credll hours 

2, Faculty and Staff $12 $10 

3. Spouse of Faculty or SlafI $12 $10 

4. Students enrolled in less $12 $10 



IPFW athletic program 



than nine credll hours 
(may opi lo pay $20 
Student Service Fee for 
same privileges as a 
(ull-tlme student) 
'/? length dressing locker 
and lock 
Towel Sen/Ice 



$6 



$6 



S6 $6 

'For purposes ol fee assessment Summer Session Is defined as that 
period from the end of Spring Semester to the beginning of Fall Semester 
B Athletic Cenler Dally User Fee Schedule 
User ClassKlcallon 

1. Dally fee for use of general recreation 
area for those that have not paid the 
semester or session fee: 
a. Sludenl 
b Faculty and Slalf 
c. Spouse of Faculty, Staff or Student 
d Guest of a Fee Payer 

2. Daily lee for use ol general recreation 
area (or dependents of faculty, staff 
or student - hours will be designated 

3. Hourly fee per handball court In addilion 
to dally or semester lee. 

i. Dally locket and lock fee 
5. Dally towel service 

6 Locker opening 

7 Lock key replacement 

8 Lock replacement 
Towel replacement 



One-Time Fee 
$2.00/day 



Sl.OD/day 



$3,00/hour 




10. Equipment damaged, not returned, or lost 



S.SO/day 
$.50/day 
$.25 
$1.00 

Cost of fock 
Cost of towel 
Cost of Equipment 
Replacement 



Spectator and Recreation Opportunttias 

Everyone can be a part of the athletic program, as both a spectator and 
a participant The program consists ol Intercollegiate, Intramural, and 
recreational activities. For the spectator, home varsity events are held al 
the IPFW athletic field on the west side ol the river for men's soccer and 
baseball and at the IPFW tennis courts for men's and women's tennis. 
New soccer and baseball fields are being developed near ihe new Alhletic 
Cenler and should be available lor 1982-83. 

The new IPFW Alhletic Cenler will be the home lor games in men's and 
women's volleyball and baskelball Another popular (acilily on campus is 
Ihe Parcourse which Is a walking, jogging, exercise course located east 
ol the Union slarting by the tennis courts for recreational and physical 
filness programs. 
Intercollegiate Pragrama 

The purpose of the intercollegiate athletic programs at IPFW is (a) lo 
provide opportunities lor healthful physical exercise and recreation: (b) to 
develop alhlelic skills through practice and coaching, (c) lo build school 
spirit and Identity, (d) lo enrich ihe collegiate experience lor both par- 
ticipants and spectators To be eligible lo participate in the inler- 
colleglale athletic programs you are required to lake a minimum of 12 
hours, and must be making salisfaclory progress towards a degree 
IPFW competitive sports are baseball, men's and women's track, coed 
golf, and coed cross country which are supported by the cheerleading 
squad. 

Other activity outside ol the intercollegiate programs includes a club 
sport program at IPFW The primary goal is to provide our students, 
faculty, and slafl the opportunity lo participate m some form of activity 
according lo her-his varied ability and interests Suggestions relative to 
the recreation needs ol our diversilled student body and -5lit! are 
welcomed 
Intramural, Recreatinn^ -^^ Phyaical Fitnesa 

Tj^S 'iPrv'v irH:ramural progrann is open to students, faculcy. 
and staH of IPFW The "Intramural Spor-ts Handbook" contains 
mor^ detailed eligibility inforrnaDon and is available in the athletic 
office. Intramurais offer a variety of opportunities for parlycipa- 
tion. You can participate in activifes such as coed soccer, rac- 
quetball. badminton soccer, H-0-R-S-E, tennis, golf, cttjss 
country, coed 2 on 2 basketball, coed volleyball, pool, and table 
tennis in the fell. Spring sports are: basketball (M &amp; W], rac- 
quetball, pmball, pool, table tennis, coed softball, tennis, golf, 
and Harbararbar Days. Sign-up dates will be announced 
periodically in the Communicator In addition, new programs will 
be added throughout the year. Watch the intramural bulletin 
boards on the ground floor of Kettler Hall and in the Athletic 
Center for new programs. Any individual or group can form a 
team for any of the team activities. Please submit your ideas, 
requests, or suggestions for team or individual sporTs and 
physical fitness activity needs. 

Equipment is available for individual or group use on campus. 
Bnng en ID Co Che AthleCic Center to checkout equfiment for 
voUeybaP, basketball, football, softball end other activities. 



For further information on athletic proerama contact 
the athletic office located on the second floor in the 
Athletic Center, or call 482-5351. 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE 
UNIVERSITY 

AT FORT WAYNE 

2101 COLISEUM BOULEVARD EAST 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 46B05 

IPFW Athletic Schedules 

[Home Games Only] 

Women's Tennis 

Sept, 12 Huntington 2:30 PM 

Sept. 19 Goshen, St. Joe 10:00 AM 

Men's Soccer 



Sept. 5 
Sept. 8 
Sept. 12 
Sept. 19 
Sept. 26 
Ocl. 15 
Oct. 17 
Ocl. 27 



Puidue-Calumel 
Ft. Wayne Bible 
Blutflon 
Indiana Tech. 
Grand Rapids 
Bethel 
Marion 
Concordia 



Women's Volleyball 

Sept, 19 Cily Tournament 

Sept. 22 Huntington 

Sept. 29 Tri-State 

Oct- 1 Anderson 

Oct. 13 Valparaiso &amp; Taylor 

Ocl, 15 Goshen 

Ocl. 20 Marion 

Oct. 29 SI. Francis &amp; St. Joe 

Nov, 10 OSU. Lima 

Men's Baakettaall 

Nov. 20, 21 Regional Campus Classic 

Nov 2'! Manchester Co. 

Nov. 26 Oakland Univ. 

Dec. 4, 5 Serloma Tourney 



1:00 PM 
4:00 PM 
10:00 AM 
12:00 Noon 
200 PM 
4:00 PM 
12:00 Noon 
4:00 PM 

6:30. 7:30, 8:30 PM 

6:00 PM 

6:00 PM 

6:30 PM 

6:00 PM 

6.30 PM 

6:30 PM 

6:30 PM 

6:30 PM 

6:00 &amp; 8:00 PM 
7:30 PM 

2:30 PM 

7:00 &amp; 9:00 PM 



Dec. 8 


Bethel College 


Dec. 12 


Grace 


Jan. 13 


Marian College 


Jan. 19 


St. Francis Co), 


Jan. 28 


Goshen College 


Feb, 10 


Depauw Univ. 


Feb. 16 


Marion College 


Feb. 20 


Indiana Tech. 


Women 


s Basketball 


Dec. 4, 5 


Serloma Tourney 


Dec. a 


Marian 


Jan. 5 


Marion 


Jan. 7 


St. Joseph's 


Jan. 9 


Huntington 


Jan. 19 


Indiana Tech. 


Jan. 25 


lUPUl 


Jan. 27 


St. Francis 


Feb. 2 


Mancfiester Col. 


Feb. 1 1 


Valparaiso 


Feb. 20 


Goshen 


Man'a Volleyball (tentatraa] 


Jan. 16 


USVBA Tourney 


Jan. 30 


State Tourney 


Feb. 26 


Toledo 


Mar. 13 


Cincinnati 


Apr. 2 


Earlham 


Men's Tennia 


To Be Announced 


Coad Golf To Be Announced 


Men's Baseball [tentative] 


Mar. 24 


Manchester 


Mar. 27 


Huntington 


Apr. 1 


Tri-Slate 


Apr. 9 


Nazareth 


Apr. 10 


SI. Francis 


Apr 14 


Hillsdale 


Apr. 17 


Wabasli 


Apr. 22 


Grace 


May 1 


Anderson 



7 30 PM 
2:30 PM 
7;30 PM 
7:30 PM 
7:30 PM 
7:30 PM 
7:30 PM 
2-30 PM 

TBA 

6:00 PM 
7:00 PM 
7 00 PM 
1:00 PM 
6:00 PM 
6:30 PM 
7:00 PM 
6:00 PM 
6:00 PM 
6:30 PM 

9:00 AM 10 9:00 PM 
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM 
7,30 PM 
2:00 PM 
7:30 PM 



1:00 PM 
1:00 PM 
1:00 PM 
1:00 PM 
1:00 PM 
1:00 PM 
1:00 PM 
1:00 PM 
100 PM 




Confidentiality Statement 



COMPLIANCE WrTH PUBUC LAW 03-300, "FAMILY EDUCA- 
TIONAL RiOHTS AND PRIVACY ACT OF 1874" 
OBJECTIVE: 

The UnvETSity has tne responsMty for etlectnefy supervise cM neleaae ol 
dsta-nformecwn about U siudence The Dllices and depsrxrrwrca oF the 
Uftvereitv. wt«ti cdteci an) mw«ar&gt; academe, rrvcel. ac a donc at»vsng. 
penuv^al csouveing, ttBcdtrm. placemen, ard cOier nformaiuvi about 
stuHerefl shrf adhere w the tofovro pcicy *i regard to the release ot data- 
^iformotcri Shout students araJ eKbI devefap Bpeofc operotrig orocedires. 
i«*»ch ore coneretent vrtb these potoes 
OERNmONB: 
Student 

forpirpCGesolihspoicv. a student of Indiana UrKvtrsty-PkrclueUnrversrtv 
01 Fort Wff/rw lE s person wtB has made otfciai apotcation to the UnrvErsHY, 
proepactiv* Mudant; or who has ottended m i^ past, but s not curenciy 
eivtifcd (or ocodcmc vitr* , currant atudant. 
□•tun) ' A fact 
Inrormatlon 

Data vA^Kh have been procewed W provde Ok efevrer to o question ol 

Univaratty rwcorda on atudanta 

Oato-mlormetJon about studenta are collected and preserved for tiesgnated 
pcnods of ume for itv crpressed pirposes ol ess«trig n mantamg the 
vBr&gt;ous opereliona and firicoons ot the Uriversity arri to better serve student 
noeda The curmialwe doto-mlormatjon about an ndnndual student can be 
foi»^ in BsvETof drHecent Unvera'ty records wficft are kwated in Bcveral tif- 
fererrt nstitutjonoi unta 

The dot/Hnfonrwroon about students that aro part of the Unversitys 
records belono to the Universrtv as a corporatioo and not the student or m- 
Aviduate and Gub-unris that ora □ part ol the msDluOon 
Persona I racarda on atudanta 

(ndrvidual Untversiy bujH members cotect data about students they deal 
with n then- worli These deCB-t'ormatmn wd be considered personal rt they 
EooBfy these cntfina 

[1 1 The otoH member keepo the doto-nformation separata from University 
records and never shares Uicm with any other perstn. and 

(11) trteo the personal records with hm-her «jon ieavrig the position or 

POLICV^nlTEMEItfTB AND APPROVALBi 

1 Pii*c DBtfl-uilormolKin 

A. Tlu loOowng items are considered pobic dete-nformatjcn Br&gt;d may be 
t»BCto60d by any Btalf member ol the (jrwarsity m response to mgunes 
coriccm«ig individual Btudenta, wtiethar the nqury a wi person, n wrrcng, or 
over the lelepfione. 

Ml Nome 

[2] AHirmetion ol whether currently admitiad-enrolcd and campus location 

B. The lokrrting items are considered puMc mtormabon and may be nduded 
m appropnoto Unrvers/ty -Campus drcclonca and pubicatjons Also, they may 
be dscboed by designated stall mcmberfi m eacn campus m resoonse to rv 
qi^ncs concemnq mdvidual Btudaite, whether the rnqurv is r person, m 
wntng. or over tho tcldcfione 

[3] CloBB IbvgI and lull or part-time status 
[a] Schod-CoOoge or Dwsion 
[5j Dates ol Enrbarncnt 
[61 Dnfirees rocarj«d 

C. Unlcsa tho ntudent fiaa ofiooty filed a reslraner with the campus 
reffsi^-or requesting that dedosire not be made without ha-her written per- 
n»s»on. the loitawmg items are considered puWc inlormation end may be m- 
cluMd m oppropnota Urwersity Campus directories and publcatcns 11 these 
notfl-mformatjoii are included in a campus Orectory. they may be disclosed by 
any stall member n response to nqmnes concemng nd^viduBl Students 
wtilhnr the inquiry is in parson, in wnpng. or over the telephone 

[71 Local Bddross and phono number 

|B1 Homo eddrcss |permancrt| 
llFtostncted Data -Inlormation 

Al data -inform atton about an individual student ri the University records, not 
teted as pubkc, ore considered restricted and may not be released based cVy 
on Iho lotawnfl conditions 

A, Oisclosuro to tho individual student 

[1] A student GhaH have occess lu the decern lormsoon about hmsell- 
herself which ore pan of the University records covered by this po(cy eicepc 
witen act^ss la n clear conflict ol the privacy rights ol other individuals. The 
lolbwng reoreaeni tho oiceotona 

a) The data -inlormation wtich were part ol the University records prw to 
(yovamber 19, 1974, and which were collected and maritamed as confidenpal 
inlormutior wB not be disclosed to tho student Such data-mformstion wil be 
idonpliecj and duf» marked by ihe admrtstrafve units holding the records 

b) Admission Letters ol Recomniendaoon — letters of reccmmendatioo for 
odmisaion shall bo hold m confidence when thoy are requested (Jy the student 
affected and when both the sojdcnt and the wnier ecknowtedge tneir confiden- 
wi nature Such letters wJ become part of tho University records Tlwy wJ 
not bo revealed to tha student without the wncten per 
Such letters wil only t&gt;e used mternalty to the Unversicy i 
provGunsol 11 C olthapoicy 

c) Placomert Letters of Hecommendetion — letterB ol recommendation lor 
purposes ot seekng placement shall bo hekJ in cinfiOence when they are re- 
guested by tho student affected and when both the student and writer 
acknowlodga their confidentjal nature Such letters wil tieccme part of the 
Umvarsitya placement records Thay wiC not be revealed to the student 
wshout tho wntten permission of tho wnter [jrtess the Recommendation 
Form n question contans a student nght to "review and nspect" statement] 

d) Parents' hnanoal statements. sutNnitteo to support ao retfiests on uw 
condtion that they woiW not be made available to the student lor review 
[without wntten permission frtim the parent]. 

[2] A student shal have the opportunity to request the deletion or modifics- 
tion ol eny such in^xurate. misleading, or otherwise mappropriate data- 
nlormation coniaiied withn the Llniversrty records. 

B Dsdosure to other students 

n 1 No student sfial hove access tn the d8te*dlormatcin m the records of 
onother student unless the stuent involved fias given wntten ouihoruation lor 
tho release ol the nformation requested When a student e also an employee 
ol the University his-her access to data-uilormepon in another stixient's 
record will be governed by his or her olficiBl capacny as an empfcryea of the 
Ufwersty 

[21 To assure confidentiaWy. mstruclors shoiid utikiE Social Security 
numtnrE or soma sutablenumcncal system when posting test or eiamnatiDn 
grades, or on term papers wfien they are to be pcked up by students ti faciJCy 

C Ctecaosuro to laoity, admmstration, and stall. 

Ml Faculty, adrwvstrapon. and staff ol the Unrrersity shaa have access to 
Ihe data-mformotion about a student wfuch is deemed necessary by the 
registrar lor the perlormanco ol ther academic or admmistratft'e duoes. 

IJ Disclosure to parents 

(1 ] TTiQ dsta-informaDan etKxii a student sfuD be released to the parents 

Jy with ivntten permission of the student involved 

: Dsdosure to spouses 

1 ] The data-in lormation on a student shal not be given to a spouse without 
uw written permssion ol the sojOent involved 

f Disctosure to persons end agencies eitemal to the University. 

( I ] No non-pubtc data-dformatjon about any ndivtlual student shaD be 
rdoosed vnthout the written permssion ol the student ts eny individual, agen- 
cy, or orgarttBtion. irtess requrod by onstmg federal or state laws, le.. 
Education Amendments Act ot 1974. 

li Oecjosire lor legitimate educatjon interests 

1 1 1 This polcy 6 not intended to atxidge the freedom of igury for legitmate 
eojcation interests 

[Si Dats-mlormatKjn fnari University records about students wil be releas- 
ed let the researcher on^y il the anonymity if the mctvidual student s protected 
end upon apprppnate admiostrotive approval 

[ 3] Unttss the researcher satisfies the appropriate Unversity adminstrator 
that the student wtl not be nterviewed or hs-her ndenpty oecbsed ri the 
course ol the research protect, wntten approval ol Che student is a condition 
precedent to rawtson of the Student's records 

[d) Requests from Unversity-affiliatedar^anaamns forsctnlasDcintDrma- 
lion about students wi be honored or*y when accompanied by s written re- 
quest IrtKn the campus Dean of Students or Dean ol Student Affairs. 

H Qsdosireby subpoena. 

(1 ] When dtsdosire ol any Oata-siformaoon from the Unwersity records 
about a student are demanded bv (udoai subpoena, the statt member receiv™ 
suchasUipoenashalrvncaauAvnaoty. n wntmg. the Unversity Counsel and 
(he student rri^ifved 
lU Statistical Sumiary tnlcrmapon 

A 5t«tstical sunvnary data-n formation whch are not name-inked may be 
reteased to arr; person or agency n response to any mqury [udged reasonaUe 
by the LWrversity a«n»i«stretors r«5ponst)le f or CCTitrokig and mamarrig the 
data. 
IVMaingLcsts 

A StuOw« maing fets shal not be hrmshed to non-Uriversity orpenza- 

S Student malng lets may tM fimehed to campus organoations with the 
wrmen appnivet of the Dean of Students or Student Affars on that campis 

C Student mafciQ ksts mat be hjnBhed to acadeiTK and aOn " 
departments as dcvned necessary by the Office of the Reostrer. 
PflOaDUnES: 

1 Pubtc Oata-tnformacon 

~ e put*: oreo-mlDrmsbon are s 



A. OsCbsu-e ta the nhidtd st 



4'^ 



poicy slatfimont {see 1 . A. B. C] 
ctsd Daca^nlomiacan 



cf« givon olfics v-tiere lh( 

"ottheHe qst i B wtuJus 

recontem^ De kapta 



b J Concactng the 
btvTD the LLamii .. _ „_ ,, __ 

[S] When the student appears Kavven 

a] The student rrKjsi prcvibe proper d a tifoaj n verrfyrig 



AUGUST 14, 1981 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — PAGE 9 

_ _ f3| ^^^ o stirtre hes cheienged cortar dBCa^Ajnnaoon er\J Ins r«- 

the LkwETsty records ca n ce riBg tfjesced fWroon or modfieswn ol the reard 

a] The &lt;k99ieC]Dn staff perstn [s] revvwrig the reart w«h tlw sutan 
mm airee CD delBtB sOoctad data^iftrmaoon and do so irrrwiKa^ 

b] If tho itosanatEd staff persn does not ccjiar H«h Ow studwws request 
deto-nlcrmation, ai at»T*«troovo heomg may b« re- 



iSQjdeicnderv 
stothe 



mm aQ-eemd 

bllfthodesq 
to delete or mo 
Ojestedbv the 

cl Aheermg, 
shal prtjvido !»■ . „_ _ _ 

ir request tor Oeteoai or modfcaocyi ii^wl 



« done rrrnettatf^, an aipontment shoiid be 



regetrar shel bo aSieOulKJ This ho»&gt;™ 
lll'I^^P^*?! ^'B"™™ "^^ the student n SKvort ol Iw- 
"'* "'"" - ■ - ■ ortMdo for ^iput from tfw 



le ime Material may be removed orty dir»ig the hearmg 



toll* 

- _ . J the studeM, «i swxrig, hs-fwr decscn 

e rei»«st for *lccon or mccthcstion mductrg rsoaiafe ftr sad 

IB department, school. snJ the Oltice ol the 



Health Information and First Aid Office 



The Health Information and First Aid Office is located 
in the Athletic Center on the second floor, and is staffed 
with a registered nurse from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon and 
1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

The services offered include health counseling, 
provision of first aid and emergency care, physician 
referral for medical needs, community agency referral as 
indicated, health screening, immunization per 
physician's order, and allergy injections per physician's 
order. 

Services provided are free of charge. However, there is 
a minimal charge to defray the cost of of immunizations 
when they are given. 

Students, faculty, and staff are eligible for care, but 
visitors to the campus are not eligible for care except on 



an emergency basis. 

Appointments may be made by calling 482-5484 from 
8:00a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Clients will 
also be seen on a walk-in tiasis, although this may 
necessitate a waiting period as others with appointments 
will be seen at their scheduled time. 

In case of an emergency, contact the campus Safety and 
Security Office at 462-5474. The nurse on duty \^ be 
notified by that office as to the nature of the emergency 
and will also respond. 

Inquiries regarding services are welcomed. Please call 
482-5484 during the daily business hours if there are any 
questions you may wish to have answered prior to a visit 
to the Health Information and First Aid Office. 



Two of the people who work for you at IPFW. 




Dave Skelton, Asst. Dean of Student Services 



PAGE 10 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 14, 1981 



A Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities 

(Purdue Univ.) 



REGULATIONS GOVERNING STUDENTCONDUCT. 
DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS. AND APPEALS + 

A. Authority, Application, Amendment. 

1, Authority. These regulations are enacted pursuant to 
the authority conferred by the laws of the state of Indiana 
upon the Board of Trustees of Purdue University to do all 
acts' necessary and expedient to put and keep Purdue 
University in operation and to make all rules and 
regulations required or proper to conduct and manage 
Purdue University, and pursuant to the mandate and 
authority of Chapter 273. and Chapter 444 of the Acts of the 
Indiana General Assembly for the year 1969. 

2. Application. These regulations, as from time to time 
amended, shall apply to all undergraduate and graduate 
students of Purdue University (at the West Lafayette 
Campus and each regional campus) and shall be deemed 
a part of the terms and conditions of the admission and 
enrollment of all students. In case of any conflicts or in- 
consistencies with any other rules, regulations, directive 
or policies now existing, these regulations shall govern. 
They shall be enforced by the President of the University. 

3. Amendments. These regulations, and any amend- 
ments hereto, shall take effect on a date prescribed by the 
Board of Trustees and shall remain in effect until 
rescinded or modified by the Board of Trustees. Amend- 
ments may be proposed at any time by the Purdue 
Student Association. University Senate, administrative 
staff, or by the Board of Trustees. 

4. Adaptation for Regional Campuses. The ad- 
ministrative dean for regional campuses is hereby 
authorized and directed to make and promulgate 
revisions of these regulations, as applied to the regional 
campuses, which are necessary because of the different 
student or faculty organizations or governments existing 
at the regional campuses. Such revisions shall be effective 
when approved by the President of the University. 

5. Definitions. 

"University activity" means any teaching, research, 
administrative, disciplinary function, proceedings, 
ceremony or activity conducted by or under the authority 
of the University, 

"University properly" means property owned, con- 
trolled, used, or occupied by the University. 
"Dean's Office" means the dean of students and any 
associate, assistant or other person authorized to act for 
them. 

"Administrative action" means the issuance of an oral 
or written warning, admonition, reprimand, and-or use of 
counseling procedures. 

"Disciplinary penalty" means expulsion, suspension, 
probated suspension, disciplinary probation, and other 
educationally sound sanctions. 

"Educationally sound sanctions" means sanctions 
other than disciplinary probation, suspension, probated 
suspension, or expulsion and are limited to the following; 

restitution — monetary payment for damages and-or 
theft committed in violation of Section III-B-2-(e). 

work assignment — assignment of duties to c(HTect 
destructive acts or behavior. 

"Obstruction or disruption of a University activity" 
means any unlawful or objectionable acts or conduct (1) 
which seriously threaten the ability of the University to 
jmaintain its facilities available for performance of its 
educational activities, or (2) which are in violation of the 
reasonable rules and standards of the University designed 
to protect the academic community from unlawful con- 
duct, or (3) which present a serious threat to person or 
property of the academic community. Such phrase shall 
include, without limitations of the foregoing general 
definition, the unlawful use of force or violence on or 
within any buildings or grounds owned, used, occupied or 
controlled by the University . using or occupying any such 
buildings or grounds in violation of lawful rules or 
regulations of the University, or for the purpose or with 
the effect of denying or interfering with the lawful use 
thereof by others ; and injuring or harming any person or 
dama^g or destroying the property of others, within 

+ As passed by the Board of Trustees of Purdue 
University, as amended May 17, 1950, and May 11, 1370 
and July 24, 1978. 



such buildings and grounds. 

educationally sound sanctions may be proposed in 
combination with other disciplinary actions. 

"Disciplinary probation" means a probationary student 
status imposed for a limited time as a result of an official 
determination of misconduct. In the event the student is 
found guilty (under the procedures set forth in these 
regulations) of subsequent charges of misconduct com- 
mitted during the period of disciplinary prot)ation, 
records of such disciplinary probation shall be taken into 
consideration in determining the disciplinary penalty, if 
any, to be imposed or the administrative action, if any, to 
be taken because of such subsequent misconduct. 

"Probated suspension" means conditional continuation 
of student status for a limited and defined period of time. 
The student is permitted to retain student status upon the 
condition that the student does not further violate a n^ 
subsection of Section III-B-2 that would normally result in 
a disciplinary penalty during the time probated 
suspension is in effect. If, during the period of probated 
suspension, the student is found guil^ of an additional 
violation of Section III-B-2 after a hearing, suspension 
may become immediately effective and may be extended 
for a longer period of time than the period of probated 
suspension originally assigned. 

"Suspension" means termination of student status for a 
limited time, generally without grades; however, in cases 
such as academic dishonesty, a directed grade for a 
particular course may be appropriate. 

"Expulsion" means permanent termination of student 
status, generally without grades ; however, in cases such 
as academic dishonesty, a directed grade for a particular 
course may be appropriate. 

B. Student Conduct 

l.GeneraL Students are expected and required to abide 
by the laws of the state of Indiana and of the United States 
and the rules and regulations of Purdue University, to 
conduct themselves in accordance with accepted stan- 
dards of social behavior, to respect the rights of others, 
and to refrain from any conduct which tends to obstruct 
the work of the University or to be injurious to the welfare 
of the University, A student who violates these general 
standards of conduct may be subject to administrative 
action (as defined in Section III-A-5). If the violation falls 
within one of the categories of misconduct listed in Section 
III-B-2, the student may also be subject to disciplinary 
penalties (as defined in Section III-A-5). No disciplinary 
penalty may be imposed except for misconduct covered 
by one of the categories listed in Section in-B-2. 

2. Misconduct Subject to Disciplinary Penalties. The 
following actions constitute misconduct for which 
students may be subject to administrative actions or 
disciplinary penalties. 

a) Dishonesty in connection with any University ac- 
tivity. Cheating, plagiarism, or knowingly furnishing 
false information to the University are examples of 
dishonesty. 

The commitment of the acts of cheating, lying, stealing, 
anddeceit in any of their diverse forms (such as the use of 
ghost-written papers, the use of substitutes for talcing 
examinations, the use of illegal cribs, i^agiarism, and 
copying during examinations) is dishonest and must not 
be tolerated. Moreover, knowingly to aid and abet, 
directly or indirectly, other parties in committing 
dishonest acts is in itself dishonest. + 

b) Forgery, alteration, or the unauthorized use of 
University documents, records or identification. 

c) Obstruction or disruption of any University activity 
(as defined in Section IH-A-S), or inciting, aiding, or 
encouraging other persons to engage in such conduct. If 
substantial obstruction or disruption is threatened or 
occurs, the President, or his designee, may issue a 
disciplinary suspension warning. The minimum 
disciplinary penalty for violation of this subsection during 
the period of such warning shall be suspension for the 
remainder of the semester (or summer session) during 
which the offense occurred, and for the next full academic 
semester (and any intervening summer session 
thereafter. However, a more severe disciplinary penalty 
may be imposed. 

d) Physical abuse of any person or conduct which 
threatens or endangers the health or safety of any other 
person, whether or not such conduct occurs on University 
property. 

e) Theft, attempted theft, or damage of or to property of 

+ University Senate Document 72-18, December 15, 1972. 



the University or of a member of the University com- 
munity or campus visitor. 

f) Unauthorized entry to, or use. or occupancy of 
University facilities. 

g) Violation of any University rule governing student 
organizations, or the use of University property (in- 
cluding the lime, place, and manner of meetings or 
demonstrations on University property), or of any other 
University rule which is reasonably related to the orderly 
operation of the University; provided, however, that no 
disciplinary penalty shall be imposed in any such case 
unless it is shown that the accused student knew, or, in the 
exercise of reasonable care, should have known, of the 
rule in question, 

h) Use, possession, or distribution of narcotics or 
dangerous drugs, except as expressly permitted by law. 

i) Lewd, indecent, or obscene conduct or expression on 
University property. 

j) Failure to comply with directions of University of- 
ficials acting in the performance of their duties, 

k) Any conduct which substantially threatens or in- 
terferes with the maintenance of appropriate order and 
discipline in the operation of the University, or any con- 
duct on University property or in connection with a 
university activity which invades the rights of others. 

3. Demonstrations. Any individual or group activity or 
conduct, apparently intended to call attention to the 
participants' point of view on some issues, is not of itself 
misconduct . Demonstrations which do not involve conduct 
beyond the scope of constitutionally-protected rights of 
free speech and assembly are, of course, permissible. 
However, conduct which is otherwise improper cannot be 
justified merely because it occurs in the context of a 
demonstration. Demonstrations which involve violation of 
any subsection of Section III-B-2, will not be permitted. A 
student will be charged with misconduct for any in- 
dividual misconduct committed by the student in the 
course of a demonstration. 

4. Status During Suspension or Expulsion. No diploma 
shall be given and no grade other than directed grades, 
academic credit, or degree shall be awarded to any 
student who has been expelled or suspended from the 
University so long as the expulsion or suspension is in 
effect. 

5. Status During Disciplinary Proceedings. Except 
where summary action is taken as provided in Section III- 
C-7, the status of a student charged with misconduct shall 
not be affected pending the final disposition of charges, 
provided, however, that no diploma shall be given and no 
grades, academic credit, or degree shall be awarded to a 
student against whom charges are pending for which a 
disciplinary penalty may be imposed. The effective date 
of any disciplinary penalty shall be a date established by 
the final adjudicating body (the dean's office or the 
Campus Appeals Board). In the case of suspension or 
expulsion, the student shall not be withdrawn any earlier 
than the date the notice of charges originated or later than 
the effective date established by the fioal adjudicating 
body. 

G. Misconduct Subject to Other Peoaltlei. As provided fn 
Chapter 273 of the 1969 Acts of the Indiana General 
Assembly, misconduct whidi constitutes a violatloo o( 
these rules and regulations may be punlabed after 
determination of guilt by the procedures herein provided 
without regard to whether such miscontbict alio con- 
stitutes an offense under the criminal laws of any state or 
of the United States or whether such conduct might result 
in civil fiability of the violator to other persons. 

C. Procedures in Student Misconduct Cases 

1. Disciplinary and Administrative action Proceedings. 
Genera L 

a ) The procedures hereby estabUshed shall be followed 
in all cases in which the University institutes disciplinary 
proceedings or administrative action proceedings against 
students for violations of the rules of student conduct set 
forth in Section III-B. These procedures shall not apply to 
or affect the jurisdiction or procedures established by 
student organizations, student governments in University 
residence halls. University residences or student judicial 
boards now or hereafter organized under the auspices of 
the Purdue Student Association, University residences, 
Interfratemity Council, Associated Women Students, or 
similar organizations. 

b) Disciplinary proceedings are those proceedings 
initiated by the issuance of a notice of charees and are 

(Cont'd. OD page 13) 



^-•.-.k**.'M'*::k&lt;W'.*.V*k&gt;W**-&lt;*&lt; 



•.•.•.■.«.-.T.-,V,».».»A".*.' 



AUGUST 14. 1981 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — PAGE 11 



ARA FOOD SERVICES 

of FORT WAYNE 

WELCOMES YOU TO IPFW 

YOUR MOST CONVENIENT ANSWER 

TO YOUR MOST BASIC DESIRES (FOOD 

&amp; BEVERAGE) 

We Are Able To Satisfy Your Basic Desires Thru 

•AUTOMATIC FOOD SERVICE - ON CAMPUS 
•SNACK BAR - STUDENT UNION 
•PARTIES TO GO - 483-4733 

SNACK BAR (THE FORT) HOURS ARE: 

MONDAY-THURSDAY 7:30 am-3:30 pm 

FRIDAY 7:30 am-3:00 pm 



THE FORT 



GROUND FLOOR 



WALB MEMORIAL UNION 




• ONLY 3 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 

• BIG SELECTION 
•GUARANTEED LOWEST PRICES 
•SERVICE DEPARTMENT 

• PERSONALIZED SERVICE 

•7 DAY MONEY BACK GUARANTEE 
•30 DAY PRICE PROTECTION 

• BEST CAR STEREO INSTALLATION 
DEPT. IN TRI-STATE AREA 

Check out our 
weekly specials 

AUDIO CITY NORTH 

341 3 North Anthony 
Beside Karma Records 



IF YOU DRIVE 
THE BEST 

THEN. (NATURALLY) 

YOU 

DESERVE 
THE BEST! 

Let FORT WAYNE 
FOREIGN CAR 

help you with: 

•Import Parts 
•Complete Service 
•Used Import Vehicles 

HOURS: Mon.-Fri. B:30 a.m. -5:30 p.m. 

2604 E. WASHINGTON BLVD. 

422-4423 





were more 
than a 

bridal 
d)op 



Whether it's the Governor's Ball or candlelight 
reserved for only two. you'll find one of our 
gowns is 'Especially Yours' . maybe you didn't 
know, we're more than a bridal ihop' 



ilhimg^Jk 



&lt;ce 



3014 NORTH CLINTON STREET 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 4B805 



MEMBER NA TIONAL BRIDAL SER VICE 



PAGE 12 —THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 14, 1981 



governed by the provisions of Section ID-C-l to 7 in- 
clusive. The term "disciplinary proceedings" does not 
inciude administrative action proceedings. 

c) Administrative action proceedings are informal 
investigations conducted by the dean's office with a view 
to possible administrative action. Administrative action 
may be talcen by the dean's office without instituting 
disciplinary proceedings, and such action shall be final 
and not subject to further hearing or appeal. A 
disciplinary penalty may not be imposed without first 
instituting disciplinary proceedings pursuant to Section 
ni-C-2. If the dean's office confers with the student in the 
course of administrative action proceedings, no 
statement made by the student during such conference 
shall be used against the student in any disciplinary 
proceedings which may thereafter be instituted. 

2. Institution of Disciplinary Proceedings. 

aj Disciplinary proceedings shall be instituted by the 
dean '3 office by the issuance of notice of charges. 

b) The notice of charges (and all other written notices 
given to students against whom disciplinary proceedings 
are initiated) shall be delivered in the most effective 
mcUiod to the student's address as it then appears on the 
official records of the University. The notice shall inform 
the student of the rule or regulation allegedly violated, 
also fairly inform the student of the reported cir- 
cumstances of the alleged violation, and request the 
student to appear in the dean's office for a hearing of the 
incident. A copy of these regulations shall accompany 
each notice of charges. A copy of the notice of charges 
may be sent to the parent or guardian of the student if the 
student is dependent as defined in Section 152 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1954. 

3. Failure to Respond to Charges. If the notice of 
charges requests the student to appear in the dean's office 
and the student fails or refuses to appear, the dean's office 
may after such investigation as it may deem necessary, 
dismiss the charges, take administrative action or impose 
a disciplinary penalty. If the dean's office takes ad- 
ministrative action, it shall notify the student in writing of 
such actidn, and such action shall not be subject to further 
hearing or appeal. If the dean's office imposes a 
disciplinary penalty, it shall notify the student in writing 
of such action, and the student may appeal such action to 
the Campus Appeals Board as provided in Section ni-C-6. 
When it appears necessary to avoid undue hardship or to 
avoid injustice, the dean's office may extend the time to 
enable a student to respond to the charges. 

4. Response to Charges. 

a) If the student appears in response to the notice of 
charges for the purpose of a hearing of the alleged 
violation as provided in Section III-C-S. the dean's office 
shall advise the student as fully as possible of the facts 
concerning the alleged charges and the names and ad- 
dresses of witnesses then known to the dean's office. The 
student shall also be advised thatnoresponseis required, 
that any statement made by the student may be used 
against the student, that if the student remains silent, that 
silence will not be taken as an admission against the 
student, and that the student may advise the dean's office 
of any witnesses or evidence supporting the student's 
position. The dean's office shall also advise the student 
that if any new information is discovered during an in- 
vestigation subsequent to the hearing, the student will 
have an opportunity to respond to such information. 

b) After the hearing with the student and such further 
investigation as the dean's oftice deems necessary, the 
dean's office shall proceed as follows: 

1) If the dean's office determines that the violation 
alleged is notsupported by the evidence, the charges shall 
be dismissed and the student notified. 

2) If the dean's office is satisfied that the violation oc- 
curred as alleged, but that no disciplinary penalty should 
be imposed, the dean's office may take administrative 
action and notify the student. Such action by the dean's 
office shall be final and not subject to furUier hearing or 
appeal. 

3) If the dean's office is satisfied that the violation oc- 
curred as alleged and that a disciplinary penalty should 
be imposed, the dean's office shall so notify the student. 

5. Conduct of Hearing. Each hearing shall be conducted 
before one or more members of the dean of student's 
office staff, and although the hearing is informal in 
nature, it shall provide the student certain procedural 
safeguards. The student shall be given the opportunity to 
hear the evidence against tiim-her, rebut statements 
made by witnesses, present witiiesses, evidence or any 
relevant information in the student's own behalf. The 
student shall also be given the opportunity to respond to 
any new information gathered during an investigation 
subsequent to the hearing. The dean of student's office has 
the burden of proving tiie student guilty of the alleged 
violation, and the decision of the dean's office shall be 
based solely on information introduced at the hearing and 
obtained during subsequent investigations. 

No person other than the student shall be present during 
the discussion between the dean's office and the student 



except by mutual agreement of the dean's office and the 
student. 

Within five days following the conclusion of the hearing 
and subsequent investigation, the dean's office shall 
notify the student in writing of what action it will take. The 
decision letter shall contain a finding as to the guilt or 
innocence of the student and a brief statement of the 
reasons for the decision. Any disciplinary penalty im- 
posed or administrative action taken is subject to the 
provisions of Section III-B^ of this regulation and any 
other University rule, regulation, or directive then 
existing. 

6. Appeal of the Dean's Office Decision. The student 
may appeal the decision of the dean's oftice to the Campus 
Appeals Board. An appeal may be initiated by filing a 
notice of appeal with the Campus Appeals Board through 
the dean's office or with the chairperson of the Campus 
Appeals Board. Such an appeal must be filed within seven 
days of the date on the letter from the dean's office con- 
taining the decision, and the appeal must be personally 
signed by the student. The dean's oftice will provide the 
Campus Appeals Board with a copy of the notice of 
charges and the decision letter sent to the student. The 
University will be represented at the appeal hearing by 
the dean's office or other appointed representative. 

7. Summary Action. Summary disciplinary action by 
way of temporary suspension and exclusion from 
University property may be taken against a student 
charged with misconduct without the issuance of a notice 
of charges and without the procedures prescribed in 
Section IIl-C on the following conditions: Summary action 
shall be taken only by the President of the University or 
by an authorized vice president of the University, and only 
after the student shall have been given an opportunity to 
be heard if such procedure is practical and feasible under 
the circumstances. Summary action shall be taken only if 
the President or vice president is satisfied that the con- 
tinued presence of the student on University property 
threatens harm to the student or to any other persons or to 
the property of the University or of others. Whenever 
summary action is taken under this Section III-C-7, the 
procedures provided for in Section III-C for hearing and 
appeal shall be expedited so far as possible in order to 
shorten the period of summary action. "~" 

D. The Campus Appeals Board. 

1. Organization and Jurisdiction. 

a) A Campus Appeals Board shall be established for 
each campus of the University. The Campus Appeals 
Board for the West Lafayette Campus shall consist of nine 
members selected in the following manner: Three un- 
dergraduate students and one graduate student shall be 
recommended by the Student Senate to the University 
Senate Nominating Committee, -t- The University Senate 
will nominate three faculty members for appointment by 
the President. Two administrative staff members shall be 
appointed by the President of Purdue University one of 
which shall be designated as chairperson of the Campus 
Appeals Board. AtT equal number of alternates of each 
class shall be appointed at the same time and in the same 
manner as the regular members. From such panels of 
alternates the chairperson of the Campus Appeals Board 
shall designate the particular members as may be 
necessary. In extenuating circumstances, additional 
alternates may be selected, as staled above, to ease the 
burden of an unusually large number of appeals. 

b) The term of office for student members and their 
alternates shall be one year, starting June 1, and con- 
tinuing through May 31, of the following year. The term of 
office of the faculty and administrative members shall be 
for two years beginning on June 1, and ending on May 31, 
two years later. No member shall serve more than two 
consecutive terms. If any appointing authority fails to 
make the initial appointment sto the Campus Appeals 
Board within the time specified, or to fill any vacancy on 
(he panel of alternates within five days after being 
notitied to do so by the President of the University, or if at 
any time the Campus Appeals Board cannot function 
because of the refusal of any member or members to 
serve, the President of the University may make ap- 
pointments, fill vacancies, or take such other action as he 
deems necessary to constitute a Campus Appeals Board 
for each campus of the University. 

c) The Campus Appeals Board shall elect a vice 
chairperson and secretary, it shall adopt regulations 
governing its procedures not inconsistent with these 
regulations. It shall have only the jurisdiction herein 
granted. 

2. Conduct of Appeal. 

a) The Campus Appeals Board may prescribe 
regulations governing the conduct of the appeal not in- 
consistent with these" regulations. The appeal hearing 
shall be open to the public or closed as the Campus 
Appeals Board shall determine. If a hearing is to be open 
to the public, the Campus Appeals Board may change the 
place of the hearing, and its determination of the place 

+ University Senate Document 77-16, 20 Feb. 78. 



and of the numl)er of advisors and observers that can be 
convenienUy accommodated shall l&gt;e final. Notice of a 
change of place shall be given prompUy to the student. An 
official tape recording shall be made of the appeal which 
shall be kept by the Campus Appeals Board for at least 
one year. 

The student is entitled to be present at the appeal and to 
be accompanied by ad\'isors of the student's choice. The 
student may also be represented by legal counsel, 
provided he-she files a statement of such intention, giving 
the name and address of such counsel to the chairperson 
or secretary of the Campus Appeals Board at least 48 
hours before the time of the hearing. If the University 
intends to be represented at such hearing by legal 
counsel, the accused student shall be notified of that in 
writing at least 72 hours before the time of the hearing. If 
the student has given such notice and is entitled to be 
represented by legal counsel, the University may also be 
represented by legal counsel regardless of any previously 
expressed intention to the contrary. The student shall 
have the right to confront and cross-examine witiiesses. 
and to present witnesses and evidence in the student's 
behalf. At the hearing, the burden of proving the student 
guilty of the alleged violation shall be on the University. 
The Campus Appeals Board shall consider any evidence 
relevant to the incident. 

(b) The Campus Appeals Board shall decide Uie appeal 
and issue its written decision within ten days after the 
date of the appeal hearing, except where the President of 
the University authorizes additional time. Copies of its 
decision shall be furnished to the student, the President's 
Office, and the dean's oftice. 

If the decision being appealed found the student guilty 
and imposed a disciplinary penalty, the Campus Appeals 
Board shall have the power either: 

1 ) To reverse the finding and acquit the student 

2) To affirm the finding and the disciplinary penalty 
proposed by the dean's office 

3) To affirm the finding and in cases where a proposed 
disciplinary penalty is believed inappropriate to the 
misconduct, to reduce or increase the severity of the 
disciplinary penalty or to direct that appropriate ad- 
ministrative action be taken by the dean's office in lieu of 
any disciplinary penalty. 

3. Appeals from the Dean's Office. The Campus Appeals 
Board shall hear each case appealed from the dean's 
office and the procedures to initiate such appeals shall be 
as provided in Section III-C-6. 

4. Appeals Concerning Recognition of Student 
Organizations. The Campus Appeals Board shall have 
jurisdiction to hear and shall be required to hear any 
appeal taken by a student organization which the dean's 
office has refused to recognize or from which recognition 
has been withdrawn. In such cases, the Campus Appeals 
Board shall either affirm or reverse the decision, and its 
action shall befinal. 

5. Appeals from Student Supreme Court. The Campus 
Appeals Board shall have discretionary jurisdiction to 
hear appeals from the Student Supreme Court. In such 
cases, it may affirm or reverse a decision, and its action 
shall be final. 

6. Complaints Under Bill of Student Rights. The 
Campus Appeals Board shall have complaints from 
students concerning actions or decisions made by the 
University which are claimed to violate rights established 
under the Bill of Student Rights. In such cases, the 
Campus Appeals Board shall have the power and duty to 
make findings and recommendations to the President of 
the University. 

E, Grade AppealsSystem. 

1 , Adoption by Faculty. The faculty of the University at 
the West Lafayette Campus has adopted the following 
procedures for grade appeals pursuant to the authority 
delegated to the faculty. The Board of Trustees hereby 
approves such procedures for the West Lafayette Cam- 
pus. + 

2. General. 

a ) In the academic community, grades area measure of 
student achievement toward fulfillment of course ob- 
jectives. The responsibility for assessing student 
achievement and assigning grades rests with the faculty, 
and except for unusual circumstances, the course grade 
given is final. 

bl The grade appeals system affords recourse to a 
student who has evidence or believes that evidence exists 
to show that an inappropriate grade has been assigned as 
a result of prejudice, caprice, or other improper con- 
ditions such as mechanical error, or assignment of a 
grade inconsistent with those assigned other students. 
Additionally, a student may challenge the reduction of a 
grade for alleged scholastic dishonesty. 

c) The only University authorities empowered to 
change grades are the instructor or the faculty member in 
charge of the course in question, and the school and 
University grade appeals committees. 

d) Informal attempts must be made to resolve grade 
■I- Approved May 9, 1974. 



(Cont'd, from page 10) 

grievances and appeals at the lowest possible level course 
instructor, department head, etc. 

e) Graduate students who wish to appeal grades 
received in regular course work may do so through the 
grade appeals system. Cases involving the decisions of 
graduate examination committees, the acceptance of 
graduate theses, and the application of professional 
standards relating to the retention of graduate students 
shall be handled by procedures authorized by the 
Graduate Council rather than the grade appeals system. 

ft When a student initiates a formal grade appeal, he- 
she should be prepared to slate in what way his grade 
assignment was arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise im- 
proper At that time, he-she may seek the assistance of the 
dean of students, the chairman-chairwoman of one of the 
grade appeals committees, or his-her academic adviser. 

g) In appealing a grade the burden of proof is on the 
student, except in the case of alleged academic 
dishonesty, where the instructor must support the 
allegation. 

3. School Grade Appeals Committees, 
a ) Each of the nine schools of Purdue University at the 
West Lafayette Campus shall establish a grade appeals 
committee to hear grade grievances and appeals which 
are not resolved informally at a lower level. In cases of 
alleged academic dishonesty, the school committee shall 
consist of two undergraduate students, two graduate 
students, (except in schools which have no graduate 
students, in which case the graduates will be replaced by 
a like number of undergraduates), and four members of 
the instructional faculty ; in all other cases, the committee 
shall consist of two students (undergraduate or graduate 
corresponding to the status of the appellant) and four 
members of the instructional faculty. In addition, there 
will be two alternates from each (faculty, graduate, and 
undergraduate) category. Each school shall establish 
procedures whereby the student members and alternates 
shall be selected annually by the appropriate segment 
(undergraduate or graduate) of the student body of that 
unit. Two of the faculty members of the committee shall 
be selected annually for a two-year term, by vote of the 
faculty of the school involved, with one alternate being 
selected at the same time for a like term. From the panel 
of alternates, the chairman-chairwoman of the respective 
school committee shall select at random the particular 
alternates to serve as temporary or permanent 
replacements for regular members as may be necessary 
because of absence, personal involvement in the case, 
potential conflicts of interest, or other specific 
disqualifying causes. 

b) The regular members and alternates shall be 
selected in the spring (not later than May l) to commence 
serving June I. No member shall serve more than two 
consecutive terms. Annually, at the last meeting of the 
academic year, the eight members for the coming year 
shall elect (by majority vote) one of the four regular 
faculty members to act as new chairman-chairwoman of 
the committee, 

4. University Grade Appeals Committee. 

a I A University Grade Appeals Committee, with the 
authority to hear appeals of school committee decisions, 
shall be established for the West Lafayette Campus. The 
University committee shall be responsible to and report to 
the Faculty Affairs Committee of the University Senate. 
In hearing appeals from cases of alleged academic 
dishonesty, the University committee shall consist of 
three undergraduate students, three graduate students, 
and six members of the instructional faculty; in all other 
appeal cases, the committee shall consist of three 
students (undergraduate or graduate to correspond to the 
status of the appealing student) and six members of the 
instructional faculty. They shall be selected in the 
following manner: three undergraduate students 
nominated by the student body president and confirmed 
by the Student Senate; three graduate students appointed 
by the Committee on Student Affairs of the University 
Senate; and six faculty members selected by the 
University Senate. The student members shall be ap- 
pointed annually, with three alternates from each student 
category being selected similarly. Two of the /acuity 
members of the committee shall be elected annually for a 
three-year term, with one alternate being elected at the 
same Ume for a like term. From the panel of alternates, 
the chairman-chairwoman of the University Grade 
Appeals Committee shall select at random the particular 
alternates to serve as temporary or permanent 
replacements for regular members as may be necessary. 

b) The regular members -and alternates shall be 
selected in the spring (not later than May l) to start 
serving June 1. No member shall serve more than two 
consecutive terms. If any appointing authority fails to 
make the initial appointments to the University Grade 
Appeals Committee within the specified time, or to fill any 
vacancy on the panel of alternates within five days after 
being notified to do so by the chairman-chairwoman of the 
University Grade Appeals Committee, of if at any time 



AUGUST 14. 1981 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — PAGE 13 



the University Grade Appeals Committee cannot function 
because of refusal of any member to serve, the chairman- 
chairwoman of the Faculty Affairs Committee may make 
appointments, fill vacancies, or take such other action as 
he-she deems necessar&gt;' to constitute a University Grade 
Appeals Committee. 

c) Annually, at the last University Grade Appeals 
Committee meeting of the academic year, the 12 mem- 
bers for the coming year shall elect (by majority vote) 
one of the six regular faculty members to act as the new 
chairman&lt;hairwoman of the committee. 

d) The University Grade Appeals Committee shall 
adopt its own hearing proceedings, and establish uniform 
procedures to be followed by the school committees. The 
chairman-chairwoman of the University Grade Appeals 
Committee shall be responsible for insuring that all school 
grade appeals committees are properly constituted and 
functional, 

5. Inltiatinga Grade Appeal. 

a) A student who wishes to appeal a grade must file a 
notice of intention to appeal with the chairman- 
chairwoman of the grade appeals committee of the school 
in which the course was taken. This must be done within 30 
days after the start of the regular semester following the 
one in which the questioned grade was given. The student 
will then have a maximum of 30 days (from the date of the 
notice) to attempt to resolve the situation with the in- 
structor, department head, etc. If a mutually acceptable 
decision is not reached, the student must return (within 
the 30-day limit) to the respective school committee 
chairman-chairwoman with a detailed written statement 
of allegations, facts, and circumstances. When it appears 
necessary to avoid undue hardship or to avoid injustice, 
the school committee chairman-chairwoman may extend 
the time limitation. 

b ) After receipt of the student's detailed statement, the 
chairman-chairwoman shall promptly give notice of the 
hearing to the involved faculty member with the time 
date, and place of the hearing which shall be held not less 
than five and, whenever practicable, not more than ten 
days after the receipt of such notice). Written notice shall 
be accompanied by a copy of the student's detailed 
statement, as well as the procedures and sequence of 
events to be followed in conducting the hearing. 

c) The faculty member shall promptly make all per- 
tinent grading records available to the school committee 
chairman-chairwoman. In advance of the hearing, the 
chairman-chairwoman may at his-her discretion make 
available to the student those records (or portions 
thereof) which he-she judges to be relevant in light of the 
student's allegations. 

6. Conduct of School Grade Appeals Committee 
Hearing, Genera). 

a ) The hearing shall be closed, unless both parties agree 
in writing that it be open. The chairman's-chairwoman's 
determination of the hearing location and the number of 
individuals that can be conveniently accommodated shall 
be final. The student and the instructor are both entitled to 
be represented at the hearing by advisers of their choice. 
Since the hearings are administrative and not judicial in 
nature, the advisers may not be lawyers. Both parties (or 
their representatives) have the right to present evidence 
and witnesses in their behalf and to confront and question 
opposing witnesses. 

b) Under normal circumstances, if the duly notified 
student complainant does not appear for the hearing, the 
complaint shall be dismissed, the case closed, and these 
actions not subject to further hearing or appeal. If, 
however, a duly notified faculty member does not ap- 
pear, the hearing will continue on the presumption that 
there is no desire to challenge evidence or witnesses 
presented by the student. 

c) An official tape recording shall be made of each 
hearing and filed by the chairman-chairwoman of the 
respective school committee for at least one year. The 
recording will be confidenbal and used only if further 
appeal is granted by The University Grade Appeals 
Committee or under legal compulsion. 

d) At the conclusion of the hearing, the committee may 
(by a majority vote of the committee membership) 
recommend changing the original grade. A written report 
of the committee's decisions shall be sent to both parties 
and the chairman-chairwoman of the University Grade 
Appeals Committee no later than 15 days after the con- 
clusion of the hearing. Either party may. within six class 
days of receipt of the decision, file a written notice of 
intent to request further appeal with the chairman- 
chairwoman of the University Grade Appeals Committee. 
If no such notice is received by the chairman-chairwoman 
within the six-day period, the decision shall not be subject 
to further hearing or appeal. If, at that time, the in- 
structor who originally gave the grade is not willing to 
initiate a recommended change, the chairman- 
chairwoman of the University Grade Appeals Committee 
shall file the directed change with the registrar who shall 
record the new grade. 



7- Appeal from the School Committees Decisions 
a . Under certain specific circumstances (Sec III-E-T- 
b. either the student or the instructor mav file a request 
for an appeal of the school grade appeals comniittee 
decision. If the appeal request is granted, the case will be 
heard by the Universit&gt;' Grade Appeals Committee The 
process may be initialed by filing a personal signed notice 
o appeal with the cha&gt;rman^:ha,rwoman of the 
Umversily Grade Appeals Committee within the six-day 
limit (Section lII-E-6-d). The notice shall be accompanied 
by a written statement of the alleged procedural 
irregularities or new evidence, or a substantial 
enumeration of why the appellant believes the school 
committee decision is erroneous or unfair. Upon request 
the respective school committee chairman-chainvoman 
will immediately transmit the tape recording of the school 
hearing and any other items of evidence presented at the 
school hearing to the chairman-chairwoman of the 
University Grade Appeals Committee. The decision of the 
University Grade Appeals Committee to grant or deny 
appeals from school committees shall be final 

but the University Grade Appeals Committee finds, on 
the basis of the appellants written statement and other 
available evidence, that substantial procedural 
irregularities or inequities existed in the school hearing or 
that substantial new evidence has been uncovered the 
Umversity Grade Appeals Committee shall hear the case 
de novo. Additionally, the committee may at its discretion 
hear appeals from the school level, when the appellant's 
statement substantiates to its satisfaction that the school 
decision may have been erroneous or unfair. If the 
University Grade Appeals Committee grants an appeal 
the chairman-chairwoman shall promptly give notice to 
both parties of the time, date, and placeof hearing (which 
shall be held not less than five and. whenever practicable 
not more than ten days after the receipt of such notice) as 
well as providing them with a copy of the procedures ^d 
sequence of events to be followed in conducting the 
heju-ing. 

8. Conduct of University Grade Appeal Committee 
Hearings, General. 

a) The appeal hearing shall be closed, unless both 
parties agree in writing for it to be open. The chairman's- 
chairwoman's determination of the hearing location and 
the number of individuals that can be conveniently ac- 
commodated shall be final. The appellant and opposing 
party are both entitled to be represented at the hearing by 
advisers of their choice. Since the hearings are ad- 
ministrative and not judicial in nature, the advisers may 
not be lawyers. If an appeal is heard on the basis of 
procedural irregularity or new evidence, both parties (or 
their representatives) have the right to present evidence 
and witnesses in their behalf and to confront and question 
opposing witnesses. If, however, the University Grade 
Appeals Committee elects to hear an appeal on the 
grounds that the school grade appeals committee's 
decision appears to be erroneous or unfair, it shall not 
accept additional evidence but shall consider only matters 
introduced at the school hearing. The taped record of the 
school hearing shall be made available for audition by 
both parties and the members of the University com- 
mittee Additionally, the committee may, in its discretion, 
have a transcript of the school hearing prepared. If a 
transcript is prepared, it will be safeguarded and used in 
the same fashion as taped records of hearings. 

b) If a duly notified appeallant does not appear for the 
hearing, the committee may close the case and it will be 
subject to no further hearing or appeal. If the opposing 
party (having been duly notified) does not appear, the 
hearing will continue ton the presumption that there is no 
desire to challenge evidence or witnesses that may be 
presented. 

c) An official tape recording shall be made of each 
hearing and kept by the chairman-chairwoman of the 
University committee for at least one year. The tape will 
be confidential and used only under legal compulsion in 
civil court proceedings. 

d) After the University Grade Appeals Committee hears 
an appeal, it may (by a majority vote of the committee' 
membership) recommend changing the original grade. A 
written report of the University Grade Appeals Com- 
mittee's decision shall be sent to both parties no later than 
15 days after the conclusion of the hearing. The University 
Grade Appeals Committee's decision is final and shall not 
be subject to further hearing or appeal. If the instructor 
who originally gave the grade is not willing to initiateany 
recommended grade change, the chairman-chairwoman 
of the University Grade Appeals Committee shall file the 
change with the registrar who shall record the new grade. 

9. Other .Academic-Grade Appeal Jurisdictions. 

a) Informal boards or committees may be established 
within academic departments to resolve grade grievances 
andappeals. 

bi Students involved in cases of alleged academic 
dishonesty may be subject to disciplinary penalties under 
Section III-B-2-a of the Regulations Governing Student 
Conduct. Disciplinary Proceedings, and Appeals. 



PAGE 14 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 14, 1981 



A Statement Of Student Rights and Responsibilities 

(Indiana University) 

(7) Iniiaiion or rinnilatnn of a trport or v.irtiine of an impcndiiw 



A RESOLUTION 

RESOLVED by ihc Boa/d of TnOtm al Iiufuna Vnivrx^ty, under the 
aulhority fonfmrd by Iht fimtrtl Aiseinbly of ibe -Suif of Indiana, in com- 
plianu with ihr nundair of iht Cnieral Aurmbly in Chapur 273, and in 
compyancr wiih Chapin- *44, boih marled in iht 96ih S-«ion of ihe Indiana 
G«n«nl Anranbly in \W), iJie fnNowinK nifej and rcpilaliom arc enacted: 

SECTION I. STUDENT RIGHTS AND RP-SPONSIBILITIES 

1.1 Sludenli ihould have accurate and plainly Haled infonnaiion rclalimt 
to the mainlenanre of acreplahic academir lunding, ipidualioo requiirmenu, 
and individual rourle ob)cclivei and rcqaiiemenli (lee, academic bullethu 
and Code of Acadonic Eihici). 

1.2 Student recnrdi will be maintained in lcn:ping with the Family Educa- 
lional RijhU and Pnvacy Acl of 1974, further amendmenU and the HEW 
(juidclina for implemenlalion (&gt;rr. teparate policy iiatemcnl. 5cciH&gt;n 4.9). 

' 1.3 In aJI academic evaluation!, and in imlanrei of academic diidpline, the 
•Indent hai the right to fair arid impartial ireaimenk 
1.4 



ippro- 



fa) .'iludenu may alabliih, iuue, and diitribute— cniuiitenl with 
priate rei;"!"!""" conceminff the lime, place, and manner of dtitribuiic 
Itudcnl -directed publicationi which are in no way publiihed under the ampicei 
of ihr Univenrty and arc puhliihrd wilhoul any financial mppon from the 
Univeriity. Such regulallnni iliall not he dmii^ed to ratrict iludenl acccH 
to ihoe publicaiioru on Univeniiy property. 

(b) Studeni'ditecled piiblicaliom which are [lubliihcd under Univenity 
auipicc* ihall be free of renionhip. The Univenity ihall honor thii freedom 
by publicly reroKnizinx and prorecling ihc itudcni edilon' and inanigerr' 
tighl to Pilablish cdilorial po I icie*— within the boundi of prevailing I^ 
ilandardt and ilandardi of joumaliim, Sporifirally, itudent edilon or inan- 
agen may nol be luipcnded or removed in roponie to prenurc by external 
proitpi diiagieting with tlieir editorial polirici, 

U Sludcnti have the right to freedom from unlawful diicrimjnalion on 
the baiii of race, color, religion, lex, or national origin. 

1.6 Sliidenli ihall have ihc opporturuty to paniripalc in the formulation 
o[ policy dirccll&gt; affecting iludenu through membcnhip on appropriate 
commilleei as dclermined hy the chief adminiilralivc officer of a campui 
and the Prciidenl of Ihc Univenity. 

1.7 Sludenll ilioujd be free from illegal icarchcj and leizurea. Specific 
policici oullioritt tcarchci On Univenity properly, I'uch a» residence hatli 
(«e Kry to Riiidinti Lift ) and libraricj, among others. 

1.8 

(a) The Univenity will not interfere with the righu of itudcnU to join 
auodalioni which promote their common inlercits ai iludents. 

(b) Student organiutioni holding : 
Univenity are lubjeei to Univenity f 
pertaining lo lueli Drganiralioiu, 

1.9 



I fiscal-legal relationihlp with the 
olicJei, procedures, and legulalionl 



(a) India' 



lity comidcn freedom of inquiry and diicuiilon cuen- 
lial to a Hudenft educational dcvelopmenl. Thus, ihc Univenity recognizes 
ihe right of all iludcnti lo engage in discuuion, to exchange thought and 
opinion, and to speak, write, or print freely on any subject, in accordance 
with thcKuaranlca of Federal and State Const iluliom. This broad principle 
is a cornerstone of education in a democracy, 

(b) For ihrir programs itudcnl poups on the campus may freely lelcci 
penoni they wish to inviie as gueil ipeaken or pcrformetj. There are no 
restrictions on the point of view enprBucd hy ipcahcn other than those im- 
posed by national or state law The invitation to ouuide ipeakcis does nol 
imply approval or spon»anhip of their views by the University nor by the 
groups inviting them. 

(c) Univenity facllitiei arc dciigncd to accommodate the icheduled ac- 
tivilia of the Univenity, to acconunodalc the extracurricular aelivilies of 
student groups, and to accommodate viiiton and guciti of the University. 
From lime to time, as extraordinary requests may juility, facilities may be 
made available for progr.-imi of various kinds sponsored by non-Univcnity 
groupi, especially for charitable or civic purposes, 

(d) The Univenity docs nol make its facilities available for fund-rising 
purpo(e», if ihc funds arc designated to enrich an individual or commercial 

(c) The Univcnity'i facilities ordinarily will be unavailable for the pur- 
pose of prm'iding enieriainmeni of a kind that is available in the outside 
community and is compctiti\T with it. 

(f) The Univenity reser\'ei the right to control Its facilities to assure 
ihat e^■cnts held on its varioui campuses are compalible with in prime pur- 
pose of serving the Univenity community by making available lo it programs 
that appear lo enhance its cultural and educational opporlunilics. 

(g) Tlie Uni\-crsily will at all times seek to assure student and faculty 
groupi ihe opportunity to mccl and lo hear and exchange ideas and views, 
however controversial, but il docs not iiccnic and will not tolerate what is 

1.10 Students ate free lo engage in peaceful and orderly protest, donon- 
stnition, and picketing which dors nol ditrupl functions of the Uni\-enlty. 
l.n Sludenll havt the righl to freely exercise ihcir full rights as citiiem. 
In this light, the Univenity affirms the righl to iludents to exercise their 
frexxloms without University interference or fear of Univcnitv sanction for 
inch activity. 

1,12 A» iiiiiiibera of the iicaileiuii raminunily, studenls haw an obligation 
in Ihat community and lo tlir prcser\^lion of the aradeinir ptoreu. As 
rili/rns. iludents hair llie rrsjmruibilily to know and obe&gt;- the bu-s of Ihc 
United Sialei. the SLilr of lndian.1. and of loral govTmnienti, Student 
stntus !n no wny exempu thriii from the n^uiti'mcnti of obeying surh laiit 

(a) The following actions constitute miieanduct for which studenls may 
be penalized, by such sanction as described in 1.13 (c), when committed on 
Univenity property: 

(1) Actions which endanger the sludcnl, the Unii-enity community, 
or the academic process. 

(2) Conduct ihat is made a crime by ihe crimiruj law of the Stale 
o( Indiana or Ihc United States of America, that ukes place aa 
Uni«nily property or in the courw of a Univenity activity. 

(3} Unauthoriird uking or pooesiion of Univenity property or 
property belonging ID olhen. 

(4) Academic diihonrsty, surh as cheating and plagiarism; knowingly 
furnishing false Infonnation: and forgery, allrration. or unauthoriad 
HIT of Uni^rsiiv dwumenii. records, idrnlificalion. or property. (See 
• Section III of this dociimenl.) 

(51 Inientional actions wdirh obitnict, disrupt, or physically inter- 
fere with Ihe use of Um\irJly premises, bidldings. rooms, or parages, 
or refusal to vacate a building, slreet, sidewalk, drii-cway. or other 
facdity of the Univcruly when directed to do so by an authorired omcer 
of the Uniwnity having jusi cause to order the vacaiion. 

(6) Use- of, or threaiened use of, ph)iical force or ^SoleD^e lo ratrvt 
the freedom of action or m&lt;ncmen. of anoihcr. or lo endanger the health 
or saleiy ct any person, « aciing uith ™lrnce. or aldl.^, abetting, 
cneor,raR,ng, or parlicipaling in a riot or rioting, or incilins a riot, when 
the conduct occurs on Unismily propenv or in the course of a Uoivrr- 
Hty activity. 



mpendirn; 
bombms, fabc alarm of Tre, or oiber crime, cmeigencv. or caiaiirophe, 
knowing that the report a false; or lo knou-in^ly Irartimii such a report 
to an official or to an official agency, or inienllonally false reporting 
of a fiic. or that a bomb or other csploiive has been placed in any 
Univenity building or elsewhere on UnivTniiy property. 

(8) Failure id comply with the dirertkms of Uni\-enity officials and 
their authorired agents acting in ihe performance of ihrir duties. 

(9) Pooesion or use nf almholic bev-nai^ on any Uniitnity property 
contrary to law; the posscision or use of alcoholic beverages in any un- 
dcrgraduaie residence suprriiied by ihe UnisTnily: or the use or cwn- 
spicuDui possession of alcnholic beverages in or on any property of the 
Univenity frequented by the public. 

(10) Possrssion of rrcanns or other dangertnis weapons on Univenity 
property cnntrarv to law: f.iuessioii or display of any Trearm on Uni- 
venity property frequented by ihe public, except in the course of an 
aulhoriycd activity; or poiseiiion of weapons in roidcnce balls on 
Uriiveniiy property in violation of rnidence halls rules. 

(11) IniCTilional poominn on Univeniiy properly of a dangerous ■ 
article or substance as a polentiaLweapon, or of any article or substance 
calculated to injure or discomfort any person without his consent. 

(12) Possession or use of illei;al flrcHorks, incendiary devices, or other 
dangerous explosives. 

(13) PcBScssion or use of illegal drugs. 

(14) Intentional daniai;c to or destruction of Unii-cnity property or 
of property on Univeniiy premises belonging lo olhen. 

(b) Actions nol conunitied on Univenity properly may also be subject to 
penalties, provided that the offense relates to the security of the Univeniiy 
community or the integrity of Ihe educational process (e.g., rape, arson, 
fraud...). 

(c) The scope of disciplinary sanction which may be Imposed on students 
u as follows; reprimand; disciplinary probation; expulsion from Univenity 
housing: suipension or expulsion from the Univeniiy. In addition, academic 
misconduct may be punished by an academic sanction in the course in which 
the misconduct occurred, 

(d) The process for imposing .icadcmic and/or diiciplinary sanctions shall 
be designed to accord itudcnw the (^aranlees of due process and procedural 
fairness. 



(e) The Univc 



illy I 



dertakcs 



ludents suh- 



2.1 



. will be taken inio consideration. 

SECTION II. DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES 
Applieabilily of Proeeducs 



iting Univenity rules of iiudcr 
accordance wilh the followinR proced 
motor vehicle regulations, and proced ur 



conduct shall 
res. However, 
under which 



n associate, assistant, or designee of Ihc Dean (or Student 



X been violated 



A sludrnt charged v 
be punished only in 
house and hall rule; 
othcrwist^ include a 
Services.) 

(b| The notice shall be sctit by certified m;iil lo the stu. 
apjionn in the official records of the Uni^i;nity or shall be cl 
In the studcnu The nntire shall quole the rule claimed lo 
and sli.-ill fairly inform the student of the reported rin 
allegedly wrongful ronduci. The notice shall require the student I 
in the Oirire of the Dean for Student Ser^arcs at a time and o 
ifXTified (which ordinarily will not be eariicr than three days 
mailing of the notice) to diiruis the alleged violation. 
(c) The notice shall inform the student of ihe following: 
(1) The offense the student is alleged lo h.ivc comi 
those regulation arc enforeed. as well as procedure urtder 
vcnity applies its checklist td collect monies, continue in fc 
lion of questions rising under them need nol comply i 
procedures and do not apply t 

2.2 Notice 

(a) Disciplinary action against a itudent shall be initiated by the Dean 
for Student Services by the sending of a notice lo ihc sludcnl. (The Icrm 
"Dean for Student Services," wherever used in this statement, means on a 
particular campus, the Univeniiy offccr appointed to perform functions 
usually performed by a Dean of Students. Il may, unless the context requina 
in of these regulations; 

ind place of alleged commission, and other 



nilted by citing 

which Ihc Uni- 

ircc. and adjudica- 

nrith Ihe following 

s Ihat arc amendable to ihose 



linary hearing to discuss 



r other 



(2) The date, time, and place of alleged c. 
vant circumstances; 

(3) The date, time, and place of the prcli 
the alleged violation; 

(4) That the student may have an advise 

(5) That the student need not answer questions and that a choice 
to remain silent will not be taken as an admission of guilt; 

(6) That, if (he student fails to appear for the conference, the Dean 
for Student Services may; (a) reschedule ihe conference; (b) dismiss the 
charges; or (c) if the Dean for Student Services reasonably believes the 
faihirr lo be inexcusable, iui|XBe any of llir disriplinaT pcnallies described 
under Section I, paragraph 1. 13 (e). 

(7) That any disciplinary penaliics imposed under ihe circumslancci 
noted in paragraph (6) abose shall be subject lo further hearing or 
appeal, but Ihe fact of the student's failure lo appear al the conference, 
if unJLiiincd, may be weighed as a factor in futi/rc hearings 

2J Siudenl's Response to Charge: Di^mullon Without Hearita; 



may, bui need nol, tr 
(b) If. after discu 
Ihe Dean for Studei 
supported bj- the i 



alleged. The student 



Doiify ihesmdeni 
(cl If, after discussion, or if 
for Student Scnices a 
Dean for Student Serv; 
penalty h\ 



uible of ihe facts : 
ike responses and explanal 
ion and such funhcr invntigaiion as may be necessary, 
Scr\ices deiermines thai the viobiion alleged is nol 
: Dean for Sludeni Services shall dismiss the 



I laib t&lt; 



offered the 



riihn 



■e a hearing before 
ling and delivered 
• specinerl in the i 



ippear, and if the Dean 

itfied that the violation occurred as alleged, the 

shall so notify the student and shall propose a 

Kn notice. The sludrnt. by such notice, shall be 

nting to the dFiermination and proposed 

ission. Should a 






Hearing Commission, i 
:&lt;■ Dean for Sludrnt Senirra Offirr o 
ihat proijnars ihr penalty which ih.n 



shall be 



(d) If no wriiien choice is received by the Dean for Student Services 
within the time specified, no healing shall be held, ihe punishment prc^iosed 
by the Dean for Student Services shall be impcsed. atid the ac:ion shall be 
' d flnaL 



(a) If a itudcni rrquesu a hearing, the Dean foe Student Sen-ica shall 
make arrangenienis for the hearing: bui thereafter, with notice to the sludcnl. 
the Dean may request the Hearing Commission (see 2.4 (bl] to dismiss the 
case. If a bearing is to take pbcr. notice from ihe Dean for Sludeni Services 



he student's addiro as it then appeara in Ihe 
shall be dcUvrred prrsnna1l\ lo the iiudcnt. 
L of the fonowini;: 
ave been ccnmutied, by dling the relcvuil 



shall be sent by certified mail tc 
official records of the Uniiersiiy or 
The notice shall inform the stiidrn 

( 1 ) the offense alleged to }■ 
section of these r^ulaliom ; 

(2) the date. time, and place of alleged commission, and other refcvant 
drcumstancd, including a summary of the e%idence upon which the 
charges are based, the names of thoie who may be presented as witnesses 
and/or whose siatcinenls would be offered as evidence at the hearing; 

(3) the dale, liinc-. a™! plan- of the hearinR, which shall nol be r.irlier 
than fivr days after the date of the notice; 

(4) that ihc Sludeni is entitled lo be present wilh counsel or an adviKT 
of hii/her choice and to pieieni uiinesses and lo rroB^Dumfte nilnnx) 
who appear; 

(5) that the Unii-eniiy may also be represenled by legal counsel if it 

(6) thai the sludcnl need nol an.sv,Tr questions, and thai a choice to 
remain silent will rmt be taken as an admission of gujll; 

(7) the penalties that may be imposed by the Hearing Commission; 

(8) that the hearing will be closed lo ihe public, unless the itudenl(i) 
indicates in writing to the Dean for Student Ser\ices. al least five days in 
advance of the hearing, a desire to open the hearing lo the public The 
Dean for Student Services and the presiding officer of the Hearing 
Commission shall make arrangements satisfactory lo the Hearing Com- 
mission lo accommodate ohicrven if a hearing is lo be public, and the 
Hearing Commission's ihoire of place and determination of Ihc number 
of ohser^Tn that ran be cnnvenicnll&gt; arrominodiled is final; 

(9) Ihat Ihe failure to appear at the hearing will be action for which 
the Hearing Commission could impose any disciplinary lanclion without 
right of further appeal if the Hearing Commission, upon diligent inquiry, 
finds such failure lobe inexcusable. 

(b) A hearing shall be conducted before a Hearing Crmuniiiion. appointed 
by Ihc chief administrative officer of a campus, which shall consist of three 
rnemben: one sludcm and two faculty mcmbcn, one of the faculty to serve 
the presiding officer of ihe Commission Each Hearing Commiuion 
itutcd from a list' of: 

:n or more students appointed by the student body president 
commendation of the sludeni assembly or other appropriate 



shall be C( 



(!) I 



representative bod) 

(2) ten or mon^ 

academic dixciplini 

of a campus. 

(c) If any vacancy 

refusal of the appropr 

cancies, the chief admit 



faculty rnemben (lo be rcpresenl alive of the varioui 
i) to be appointed by the chief administrative officer 



on the Hearing List occun because of the failure or 

I'ale authorities to make recommendation to Fdl va- 
iistralive officer of a campus may make appointments, 
such other aclion as is ncccjsary to constitute the 
Hearing List or any Hearing Commission. The memben of the Hearing 
Commission shall hold office from the fint day of the fall semester for ■ 
term of one year, but they shall complcle the hearing of any case they have 
begun lo consider. Memben may he reappointed. 

(d) No hearing shall be held unless all memben of the Hearing Commiuion 
member of a Hearing Commission is unable li 



should ( 



«H from 



serving. 



nolhcr C^mmi 



1 member ihall be 



selected from the Hearing List. 

(e) The Presiding Officer, in consultation with other memben, shall main- 
lain necessary order and shall make all rulings necessary for the fair, orderly, 
and expeditious conduct of the hearing. The llraring Commiuion may 
examine all wilneues. When ii appean necessary lo avoid undue hardship 
or lo avoid injustice, the Hearing Commission may, in its discretion, grant 
a reasonable conlinuance of the hearing The Hearing Commission shall pro- 
ride a taped transcript of all proceedings, which transcript shall be maintained 
for a period of one year. 

(f) Copies of all communication! pertaining to Ihc alleged offense from 
the Dean for Student Scr%ices to a student, whose case is pending, shall be sent 
lo the Presiding Officer. The Dean for Student Services bringing charges and 
Iheitudcnt. or Ihcstudeni's adviser or other counsel, may present and examine 
witnesses, present other evidence, and may cross-examine witnesses. The 
sludeni charged wilh an offense may testify, but shall nol be ordered lo testify 
by Ihe Hearing Commission, nor shall failure lo testify be considered an 
admission of guili. The burden of proving thai the itudent has committed the 
offense or offenses as charged shall be upon the Univenity. 

(g) The decision of the Hearing Conuniision shall be lolcly based upon 
mallen introduced al the hearing and must be baled upon lubitantial and 
ronvinrmg eiidenre. .'V derision shall be made by inajoniy vole only, with 
all members of the Commission voting, 

(h) The Hearing Commission shall make a finding whether the sludcnt 
has committed the offenie(i) as charged. It the Hearing Commiuion finds 
that ihc sludcnl has commitled the offcnie(sl, il shall, alter a review of any 
disciplinary record ihe student may have, impose one of the disciplinary 
penalties enumerated under Section I, I.I3(c),of this.9M(«mtnl, 

(i) Within ten days afler the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Com- 
mission shall render a written decision and include a brief explanation of the 
decision and set forth the findings of fact upon which the decision u made. 
The Hearing Commission shall promptly furnish copies of its decision to the 
studoit and the Dean for Student Services. 

Z5 Appeal 

(a) The Itudent or the Dean for Student Servieei may appeal the decision 
of the Hearing Commiuion to the Review Board established by paragraph 
2J(c) bdow. An appeal may be initialed by filing a notice of appeal with the 
Dean for Student Services (Office, irieluding a memorandum slating the 
reason(3} for belinnng the decision improper, not later than Kven days after 
the date of the written decision of the Hearing Commission, and the Dean 
for Student Services shall immediately forward ihe notice lo the Presiding 
Officer of Ihe Review Board and the student bn-olved (if neeeaiary). 

(b) The Sludeni shall be notified through ihe Office of the Dean for 
Student Services: 

( 1 ) of the dale, lime, and place of the appeal hearing; 

(2) that either may submit written slalemenls to ihe Review Board 
and lo one another, before the appeal hearing; 

(3) that, at the hearing, either may make oral arguments based on 
the record lo the Review Board, or that the respectrve advaer or other 
counsel may tlo so; 

(4) ihat Ihe appeal hearing will be cbsed to the public, unless other- 
wise requested by the student at least five days before the hearing; 

(5) that the Review Board will not accept additional evident*, bui 
will consider only the rscord of the previous hearing. 

(c) The Review Board shall be composed of a Student appointed by the 
appropriate president of the student body, a faculty member appcnnted by 
the Faculty Council for where there is none, by a faculty body 't^^gr'^'^ 
by the chief admininraihT officer of a campus), and an administrative 
rfficer appointed by the chief adminuiralive officer of a campus. The m1- 
ininisirative member shall lerv-e as chairman 

(d) The members d the Review Board shall hold office frm the fint day 
of the fall icmexter for a term of one year, bui they sfiall complete t(« review 



of any cait whicli ihey hait begun to nmiidtr. No member may lervr more 
than iwo torarcvihe terwi. If any vacancy on ihe Rrview Board occnn 
becauie of ihr failure or refuui of appropriate auihorilies (o mal»^ iccoai- 
mendaliom to fill vacanciei. the chief adminiilrairiie officer of a camptn may 
make appoinlmenu m fill vacaneiei. or Liie luch olher aelion necaury to 
comlilule ihe Review Board. 

(e) No hearing ihall be held unlea all mcmben of ihe Review Board are 
pTCieTit. tf any menil)cr of the Rcviw Board i&gt; unable U&gt; lervc or ihould 

excuie himielf/henelf from lervinp, another Review Board member iball 
be appninleil in accordance with ihc provliioni of iccliom (e) and (d) above. 

(f) The PieiidinR Officer of the Review Board, in eonjullalion wiih other 
membert, iha.l maintain nrceuary order and ihall malie all ruljngi neceuary 
for ihe fair, orderly, and c»p";dilioin conduct of ihr appeal hearing. Deciiioiu 
by the Review Koaid ihall be by majority vote only. 

(B) The Review Board will liileo to ihc tcr.oided upc of the Hearing 
Commiulon, antf then on the baiii of thai and oral argumenu. wrillen ilale- 
rnenw, and a review of ihc evidence presented at ihc appeal hearing, the 
Review Hoard muil render a deriiion within iwcniy dayi of ihc hearing 

f I ) Affirm ihe original decliinn whirh ihall be erfeclive as ofithe dale 
iperilicd hy llic Hearing Commiiiion, 

(2) Affirm Ihc original deciiion (and reduce penally) which »hall 
be cKeclivc as of the dale ipecified by the Hearing Commiuion. 

[3) Revenc the decision. 

{^) Hiullow ihe decition and order a new hearing, 
(h) 'Ilie decision of ihe Review Board shall be «-nt to ihc Dean for Student 
.Services, who shall notify ihc student and proceed approprialcly. 

2.6 Failure to Appear 

II a sliidml nntiHed lo apprar before the Dean fnr Studenl Scrvicei or before 
a Hearing Coinrtiission fails lo comply and if the Dean for Sludenl Services or 
ihc Hearing Coin miss ion reasonably liclicves ihal ihe violation occurred as 
nlli-ged, the Dean for Student Servlrcs or (he Heanng Commiuion ihall to 
notify die iludcnl and shall piopow an appropriate tanction by means of 
wrillen nnlice. When an cxleniion of time appears nccenary to avoid undue 
hardship or injuilire, ihc Dean lor Sliideni Services may extend the time lo 
enable a iludent lo respond lo an accusation or preiiarc a defctiic. 

2.7 Summary Action 

Summary impeniion of a iludeni and excluiion from University propenv 
may be imposed without the hearing procedure provided for in this Section, 
but only by ihc Trcsidcnl of the Univcnity upon the recommendation of the 
chirJ administrative officer of a particular campui. The Prcsidcnl (hall first 
Ite laliificd thai the continued stains as a sludenl upon the campiu leriouily 
IhtTBlen* harm lo the student or to any oihcr [lenon or the properly of the 
Univenity or of others. A iludcni to juipendcd msy be requited to leave 
the property of Ihc University and may be nnlificd thai he/ihc will thereafter 
be treated as &gt; Ircspaucr if he/she relumi. A Jtudcnl notified of such a 
tiupension may, within ten days after receipt of luch notice, request a hear- 
ing before a Hearing Commiuion, as provided in this Section, to delerTnlne 
whether ihc summary suipeniion is juilificd or whether the pervin ihould 
be reinilated. 

2.8 Whenever disciplinary action ii initiated hy the Dean for Student 
ServicFi against a student under the age of eighteen, the student shall make 
reasonable efforts lo asiure that the parcnt(s) oi, where applicable, other 
legal guardian of (he student is notified that the action is pending. 

SECTION HI. ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT 

(Tliii lertion does not |&gt;crLain lo any academic Rnriance iiTCMcdiirrs other 
than iiiuei of misconduct-) 



AUGUST 14. 1981 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — PAGE 15 



Faculty and students alike haii-e ngfatx and rspomibOiiies for learnii^, 
leaching, and schotarship within die entire UnivTniiy community. Academic 
funetiom are charactertznl by rczsooed discoune. intellectual honestv. mutual 
respect, and t^ennos to construciiv^ chan^. Individuak must remain actHT 
in avoiding violationt of acadernic cthta 

3.1 Defmhions of Aeadonie Maconduel; Stndenl Mncopdoct 

(a) Cheating — E&gt;isbonaly of any kind with respect co examination, count 
assignments, alteration of records, oc illet^ possession of emminatioiu shall be 
considered chealin;. 

It is the rtsponsibiliiy of the student not only to abstain from cheating 
but, in addition, to guird against making it pOBtble for othen to cheat. 
Any student ^tho helps another student to chrat is as guilty of cheating as 
the sludenl he assists. The student should also do everything possible lo induce 
respect for the ejamining proresi and for honesty in the performance of 
assigned tasks in or out of class. 

(h) Plagiarism— Honesty re(|uir« that any ideas or matcriak taken from 
another source for either wriitm or oral use must be fully acknowledged. 
Offering the work of someone else as one's own is plagiarism. The language 
or ideas thus taken from another may ran^e from isolated foonulas, sentences, 
or paragraphs to entire articles copied from hooks, perioditalj. speccha, or 
the MTitinp of oihcr siudenu. The offering of malcriaU assembled or collected 
by others in the form of projects or &lt;ollcrtiotu without acknowledgment 
alia is considered [ila^iariim. Any student who fails tr&gt; give credit ideas 
or materials ihat he /she takes from another source is guilty of plagiarism. 

3.2 Faculty Rcspomibililies 

The Faculty and the Trustees of Indiana University have affirmed specific 
responsibilities of academic appointites. Tlicse res|ionsibitties are contained 
in the Code of Academic F.thics which is included in the Indiana Uniatriity 
Academic Handbook. The Code of Arademir F.thics also provides procedures 
for enforcement of these respotiiihi lilies. These rcspoiuibililies include, among 

(1) A teacher will maintain a clear connection belwcen the adv,Tnce 
docription and the conduct and content of each course prtscntcd lo 
ensure efficient lubjetl selection by students. 

(2) A teacher will clearly slate the course goals and will inform itu- 
denli of telling and grading systems: moreover, these systems should he 
intellcclually justifiable and consistent with the rules and regulations 
of the academic division. 

(3) A Icacher will plan and reguble class lime willi an aivareneis of 
its value foe every student and will mecl classes regularly. 

(4) A teacher will remain avaibble lo studenu and will announce and 
keep LTieral office houti at hours con^Tnicnt lo iludcnls. 

(5) A leacher will ilrivc to develop among itudeiils respect for odicn 
and dieir opinions by demonstrating his or her own respect for each 
studenl as an individual. 

(6) A leacher will strii-c lo generate a proper napecl for an under- 
standing of academic freedom by students. At ihe same time a teacher 
will cmphasiie high iiandartls and strirt to protect students from irrele- 
vant and trivial interruptions or diversions. 

(7) Since letters of evaluauon wrillen by a leacher may be uniquely 
important documents in both ihe icadcinic and post- university hfc of a 
iludcnl, each teacher will jirive to make such letters bodi candid and 
fair. 

3 J Due Process for Academic Misconduct 
(a) Student Misconduct 

(1) A faculty member who has evidence that a student is guilty of 
chcaling or plagiarism shall initiate the process of dctcnnining the stu- 



dent's guilt a 

(21 No penalty shall be inipoed until the stxident has been informed 
of the rhar^e and of the evidence- ujioo which it is hncd and has been 
gTBtn an opportunity to presmt a defense. 

(3) If Ihe faculty menihri rinds the student cuiliy. the faculty member 
win asm a penalty ivithin the clan and shall promptly rcpon the case in 
writing to the dejonnicnl chairman and the arvlemic bead of the tchool 
or division. The penally shall he in amudancr wilh 3.4, the Aclkini 
section of Arademir Due I'mren. 

(41 If the facility mniiber and ihe student cannot agree on the facts 

pertaining to the chaiRT, or il a student wishes to apiJeal a penalty, the 

issue may be taken to the department chainnan. Each parly will pinmt 

ho rase to the rhaimian who shall then call a meeting of all involved 

panirs. If Ihe issue is not t™&gt;KTd in the iiwcting wilh the rhaimian, 

then eidier parry may ap|H7al Ihc dcriiiwi to the aradeinic head of the 

school or division and the deriimn of the arademir head to the Dean of 

Faculties who (hall tpnvenc an ad hoc all-rampiis join! faculty and 

student academic rcvifM board fiDiii the appropriate academic disriplinn, 

consisting of three faculty meniben apiiointed by the Farutly Council and 

two students appointed by the appropriate student body prrridcnl. 

[hi If a student believes thai a faculty member has violalnl the Code of 

Academic Ethira. the studenl may initiate a rompUim in accordanoe with the 

"Enforccmcnl Procedures" i|irrifird in the Code of Aradeiiiic Ethin Such 

complaints should be broughi lo the attention of an apprnprialc chairman or 

dean, or to the Dean of the Fanillin or daignec; the IWn of Ihc Fatuldc* 

shall provide for ronrdeniial rrpresonlalions rvganling such violations. 

3.1 Aetinas 

(a) A penalty affecting a iludenl's grade in a counc may be imposed by 
Ihe taculiy nieinbcr in whose course the offense occurred The faculty 
member is responsible for niaking prti|icr nntiHcation, lo the deimrtmenl illJlir- 
man concerned and to the academic head of the school or division, who iluill 
report ihe anion taken lo the Dean for Student Services for inclusion in n 
confidential file designed to provide a record that ^vil| develop information 
concerning sludrnls who have rrpcated offrnio. For cases of lepcjled violation, 
the Dean for Student Scrviica, after appropriate review wilh the Dean of 
Faculties, may initiate disciplinary action. 

(b) In rases of student arademir misconduct, the following actioiu luv 
recommended: 

( 1 ) A student's grade in a i ourse will be lowered when Ihc student 
is found guilty of dishonesty on any assignment, enamination, or paper 

(2) An incomplete may be fivrn in the course in Ihe ctent any case 
cannot be tesoKed before final grades arc due in ihe Office of Recordl 

(3) Upon approi-al by the arademir head of the irhool or division, 
the studenl may be transferred from the section in which the student is 
enrolled to another section of the same course 

(4) Cases ini-oKing violations of academic ethics outside of a class, 
such as the selling of term papers, miui be referred to the Dean for 
Studenl Services. 

(5) In rases where diiciplinary violations under Section I, paragraph 
13(a). have occurred simultaneously wilh violations of acadrmic conduct, 
the Section I offense will he heard according to the procedures in Section 
II, Disciplinary Proreduiev 

(61 By a i»i&gt;-thirds %ole, the All-Campiu Re\'iew Board [see 3.3(a| 
(41 ] may recommend to the chief adminiittalive officer of a campus 
that the student be disenrolled from the academic or professional tchool 
in whirh die student is enrolled. 



C) The Children 
fjK Are Waiting 

for 
BIG BROTHERS &amp; BIG SISTERS 

It only takes a few hours each week 

to be that "special friend" 
to a youth from a one parent home 

big brothers/big sisters 

—Orientations on IVIondays, 7:00 p.m. and the 
first Saturday of each IVIonth, 11:00 a.m.— 

919 Fairfield— 422-751 1 




Video tape, personal profiles 
and concerned interviewers 
make Two's Company an in- 
telligent option. We have found 
dates for corporation 
presidents, business ex- 
ecutives, doctors, lawyers, 
teachers, secretaries 

A selective match 
making service. 

Video Dating Service 
124 W.Washington 

Suite 3 &amp; 4 426-8859 



Gourmet Chinese Restaurant 




KEVIN CHU • YING CHEN 

5745 St Joe Road Market Place of Cantertwry 
FoitVJayne, Indiana 46815/(219)486-2456 



PAGE 16 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK -AUGUST 14. 1981 



THE BOOZE 
BARREL 

FEATURING... 

•An Excellent Wine 

Selection 
•Weekly Specials 
• Free Delivery 

Open Mon. thru Sat. 9:00 a.m.-10:30 p.m. 

3307 North Anthony Blvd. 483-41 1 1 

(Formerly North Anthony Liquors] 





IPFW SWEATSHIRTS 
AND T-SHIRTS 

FOLLETT'S 

Fort Wayne Bookstore 

Ground Roor .&lt;■«««* «*.««««« 

KettlerHall ' 483-6100 



f 



DON PEDRO'S FIESTA 

(at North Clinton and the By-pass) 

Enjoy Mexican food at reasonable prices. 
Full service dining or carry-out. 

Daily Lunch Specials under 3 

DON PEDRO'S ' 
FIESTA 

N. Clinton at the Bypass 
483-0416 

Open 11 a.m.-IO p.m. Mon.-Sat. 12 p.m.-9 p.m. Sun. 





FINDERS 

Finding a roommate ""' 

to share expenses 

makes good sense.. .ROOMMATE FINDERS 
makes It easy and 
trouble-free! 
If you're new in town... 
If you're tired of ttie 
hassle of advertising. ..call us! 

Mon.-Sat. 10-1 2-5 



422-2000 



SUMMIT CITY 




in and nde out on a 

quality bike such as Soma,.. 
Peugeot... Lot us... Ross. These 
names plus our reputation assure 
you of value, quality and performance. 
Accessories, racing gear, custom parts and ap- 
pearance options are ail m stock. Dependable. last and 
reasonatJly priced bike repair— all makes. Low cosi 
financing available for bike purchases, 

'COME LOOK US OVER FOR YOUR BIKING NEEDS! 



Summit City Bicycles 

3615NorlhClinlonSlreel 

Fori Wayne, IN 

I Soutn 01 MB SoeeO Simo ario Siaifwooa fif ccic 



Store Hours 

Ion -Fn 910 9 

Sal 9Io8 

Sun 1 lo b 



Student discount cards wBtcoma. 




V\E4/»^ 



SISTER 
TO SISTER 
PROGRAM 

WOMEN 18 YEARS OR OLDER ARE 
NEEDED TO BECOME BIG SISTERS 
TO TEEN GIRLS. REQUIREMENTS— 

— 2-4 hours once a week 

— Ability to listen 

— Willingness to become involved in the fragile business of being a friend. 

Orientations on Mondays - 7:00 p.m. 

and the 1st Saturday of each month '11:00 a.m. 

919 Fairfield 

BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS 422-7511 



Now offering... 



Wildwood's great fall-winter progranns — social, 
instructional, competitive — for tennis lovers in 
all classifications. 



Tennis 
as you like 
It! - in Wild- 
wood's fannous 
air-controlled 
comfort. 



.UJOdwood 

RACQJET 



CLUB 




now servicing 
foreign and 
domestic cars 
also liglit trucl(s! 
Services 

irV/ \y n-^ Inc. 2111 S. Calhoun 

Fort Wayne 
We honor your Student Discount Card. 219-745-4444 




AUGUST 14, 1981 — THE COMMUNICATOR —PAGE 5 



IPFW students take a break from their classes to eat 
lunch in The Fort cafeteria in Walb Memorial Union. 




You don't 

have to 

be as 

wise as 

an owl 



to work for 

The Communicator 

Prospective writers and ptiotograpliers 
are now being interviewed for The Com- 
municator fall staff. 



Wise students who 

are interested will 

call 

482-5585 

for more Informa- 
tion and an Inter- 
view appointment. 
Or visit our office in 
the Walb Memorial 
Union, Suite 215. 







Ft. Wayne Stood 
Plasma Donor Center 

- HOURS 

OF 

OPEUTION 

Tuesday t ThundiT 

9:30 A.M. until 6 P.M. 

Wed. Fri. K SaL 

7:30 A.M. until 4 P.M. 

New Donon PiKes Up 

before closing We«li- 

da|s on[;-Salu[da|i Between 

13 P.M. 



Tol 



$CASH PAIDS 

For Blood Plasma 

Donations 

One Fiee Bus ride or 1 hi. paid 

paihing. 

EARN UP TO 
$60 MONTHLY 

Call for InfonnatJon 

114 W.Washington Blvd. 
422-7435 

6rin{ Ttiii Ad (or Bonus 
(HEW DONORS ONLY] 




Dancing Daily 



• POOL 
• SANDWICHES 



• TRY OUR CARRY-OUT y- rll iK 

Speoal cetebration 1 "* V. I U \J 

• PIZZA '*'°" Ihrultxrs 5 p m -6 p m 



Overwhelmed 
by High Prices? 




SHOPGLENWAY 

BARGAIN CENTER 

JEANS • WESTERN SHIRTS 

•BIB OVERALLS • SHORTS* 

BLOUSES • 
DRESS SLACKS • PAINTER 
PANTS • TOPS OF 
ALL KINDS 



ALL FAMOUS BR7\ND NAME 
JEANS AT DISCOUNT PRICES 



— PLUS— 
OUR SALE RACKS 

Save 15% with your student discount card 

Glenway 

Bargain Center 

3B20 Coldwater Road 

Across from Glenbrook Penney's 

Mon.-Fri. 10-9 Sat. 10-6 Sun. 12-5 



PAGE 6 — THE COMMUNICATOR — AUGUST 14, 1981 

At the movies 



'Escape^ mixes up tasty brew 



By MIKE GEFFEN 
Arts Writer 
In dreaming up his latest film, 
"Escape From New York," 
director John Carpenter must have 
used the following recipe: a dash of 
Qint Eastwood, a couple of 
teaspoons of the film "The 
Warriors." a drollop from Car- 
penter's early exploitation film, 
"Assault On Precinct 10," and a 
little smidgen of Italian Spaghetti 
Westerns, just to give it spice. 

It's a successful recipe because, 
despite a juvenile script and a 
lousy ending. Carpenter manages 
to bring all these disparate 
elements together and make the 
film work. What makes it work so 
well is his pacing and style. 



Carpenter has a masterful 
technique and keeps bis tongue 
firmly in cheek. He not only 
burlesques his own cheaply made 
pot boilers, but also Clint East- 
wood's "Dirty Harry" and western 
films. The result is a fun adventure 
that moves at a rapid pace. In fact, 
the film could easily be retitled 
"Qint Eastwood Meets The 
Warriors." 

The fihn takes place in 1997, and 
Manhattan has been turned into a 
maximum security prison, 
surrounded by a wall juid mined 
bridges. The president's plane 
crashes in Manhattan on the way to 
a peace conference, and the 
warden (Lee Van Cleef) sends 
Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) into 



the prison to get him out. This plot 
sounds reminiscent of an old pulp 
magazine, and the fUm's fast pace 
is consistent with that tone. 

Kurt Russell, as Plissken, gives 
an impeccable impersonation of 
Clint Eastwood. His breathy voice 
and lanky t»dy combine in an 
excellent send up of Eastwood. 
Just as in Eastwood films, he has 
three sentences of dialogue, and 
the dialogue there is isn't exactly 
going to give Steve Tesich a run for 
his money. 

Since his performance is meant 
to be as tepid as the dialogue, 
Russell's somewhat lackluster 
skill as an actor works well here. 

The film has excellent per- 
formances from its supporting 
cast, particularly from Ernest 



Borgnine as New York's last 
surviving cabby; Isaac Hayes as 
the prison's ruling con; and Harry 
Dean Stanton as a weaselly old 
acquaintance of Snake, fliey all 
add to the fun of the film. 

What isn't funny is the film's 
ending. Carpenter heisn't yet 
learned the art of setting up a story 
that comes through to a satisfying 
conclusion. "Halloween" didn't 
really end. It just sort of stopped. 
His last film, "The Fog," built up a 
terrific ambience, but settled for 
hackneyed moraUzation during its 
conclusion. 

Carpenter's troubles with en- 
dings have followed him to 



"Escape From New York." Tlie 
ending takes a crucial plot 
element, something that has 
generated suspense throughout the 
film and is supposed to mean the 
safety of the entire world, and 
turns it into a throwaway joke. If 
the rest of the film wasn't as good 
as it is, the ending alone would 
make it one of the most disap- 
pointing films of the year. 

All in all, however, "Elscape 
From New York" is one of the best 
films to be released this summer 
and is an entertaining way to spend 
102 minutes. It's a fun, escapist 
film that doesn't try to be a great 
film, but succeeds on its own level. 



Museum unveils schedule 



James Bell, director of the Fort 
Wayne Museum of Art, has an- 
nounced the schedule of the 1981-82 
exhibition season. 

To open the season, the Museum 
will host "Selections from the Sara 
Roby Foundation Collection" of the 
American Federation of Arts, New 
York City. The show includes 32 
paintings representing a cross- 
section of 20th Century American 
masters of realism, and will run 
from Sept. 4 through Nov. 1. 

The annual "Art for Sale," a 
sales extiibidon of regional art 
work, will be held Nov. 6-9. 

From Nov. 14 through Jan. 3, the 
Museum will display a large group 
of prints by the German 
Expressionist gra^^ic artist, 
Kaethe Kollwitz. Organized by the 
Minnesota Museum of Art, the 
show will feature Kotlwitz's stark 
renderings of social oppression and 



highlight her sympathy with the 
poor and stricken masses. 

"Photographs by the 
Photorealists" will document the 
source materials for 12 
photorealist painters, and will be 
displayed from Jan. 8 through 31. 
The photos will provide 
background and insight into the 
working methods of these seminal 
artists of the 1970's. A loan of 
photorealists' works on paper from 
Ball State University will com- 
pliment this show. 

"Painterly Abstraction; 4 Views 
for the 1980's," originated by the 
Museum of Art, will expose the 
r^ional audience to some new art 
emerging in the 1980's. The four 
artists in the show each take dif- 
ferent paths to painting and point 
out new directions in art; they 
include Sam Gilliam of 
Washington, D.C., and Louise 




Photographer 

with darkroom 
experience needed 

for photo editor 

position with 
The Communicator 



EDITORS WANTED 

Experienc ed sports 



Fishman, Ron Gorchov and 
Richard Hennessy all of New York 
City. The exhibit will run from 
Feb. 5 through March 14. 

From March 19 throu^ Apr. 18, 
the Museum will host the "47th 
Annual Tri Kappa Regional 
Artists' Exhibition." 

The New York painter, 
Alexander B. Gavalas, revives the 
19th Century romantic approach to 
landscape painting. His scenes of 
upper New York State are imbued 
with empathy for our native land. 
The selection of 19 pauitings and 
drawings will be shown Apr. 23 
through June 6. 

The "Indiana University- 
Bloomington Printmaking" 
exhibit, slated for June 11 through 
July 25, covers the best work 
produced over the past tai years at 
the country's largest university 
printmaking workshop. Complete 
with a catalog, this show will be the 
first in a long line of shows to 
herald Indiana's printmaking 
heritage. 

The Museum will host the 
touring exhibit of the "62nd Annual 
National Watercolor Society 
Show." This prestigious group 
counts among its members some of 
America's finest watercolorists, 
including some from Fort Wayne 
and the surrounding area. The 
show vrill run from July 30 through 
Aug. 29. 



f 



Fort Wayne's 
Newest and Only v^-^ 

STAND-UP SINGLES v5 
SALOON 

Noon Lunch Specials ^2.95 

11:00 a.m. to 2 p.m. 





(^ 



TOODSPUllTS-Q&lt;K)D TIMES 

4111 PARNELL AVENUE 
ACROSS FROM THE COLISEUM 

HAPPY HOURS 
Vt PRICE NO LIMIT 

Monday thru Friday 5-7 p.m. Sat. 2-4 p.m. 

Monday thru Thursday Midnight to 1 a.m. 

Sandwiches - Munchies served daiiy 4-11 p.m. 

Noon Lunches Mon.-Fri. 11-2 



s 



SHHTiaTYCgllRr CUIB 




!5%0FF ^ 

L ANNUAL STUDENT 

lEMBERSHIPS 

B-Up with Our Club Facilities: 

ian Saunas •Attended Nursery •Tlierapeutic Whirlpool 
ibics 'IS Racduetball Courts •Complete Fitness Center 
istlcs plus Yoga •IB Lap per Mile Jogging Track 
Dlus Leagues •Complete Pro-Shop plus TV Lounge 



.1 Offer Expires: Sept. 15th 



s's Finest R»C(lU9tluH A FlttlKS FseBty" 




AUGUST 14, 1981 — THE COMMUNICATOR - PAGE 7 




The IPFW Depart- 
ment of Rne Arts played 
host this summer to the 
"Ry by Night" ant ex- 
hibit. Local artists 
displayed works including 
[clocl&lt;wise from upper 
left]: "Structure K-5 
Pedras Negras," by 
Norman Bradley; "To 
Vincent," by J. Lauham; 
"Self-Portrait," by 
Celeste Emerick; "Food 
Cards in Hand," by 
Bruce Gallmeister; 
"Chas," by Robyn 
Jackson; and "Driving 
Test," [artist's name 
not available]. 




Photos by 

Rick 
Papazian 




PAGE 8 - THE COMMUhQCATOR — AUGUST 14, 1981 

Opening delayed 

The Health, Physical Education 
and Recreation Building CHPER 
building) will not be opening in 
August as was previously hoped. 

According to Athletic Director 
David Skelton, the building should 
be partially opened for student use 
by the beginning of Octotrer, but 
full usage of the building isn't 
expected until November. 

The building will house five 
handball-racquetball courts; three 
fullsize basketball courts; an in- 



door jogging track; facilities for 
indoor tennis, volleyball, gym- 
nastics, wrestling, weightli/ting, 
fencing and dancing; coaches 
offices; a couple of classrooms; a 
lecture hall ; and the Student 
Health Service. 

According to Skelton. the HPER 
building should expand the IPFW 
intramural program immensely 
because once opened, it will offer 
many facilities previously 
unavailable to the campus. 



Fall sports begin soon 



IPFW students interested in 
trying out for men's soccer, 
women's volleyball, coed cross 
country, and men's and women's 
tennis teams should contact the 
Athletic office on the second floor 
of Walb Memorial Union, room 210, 
for a physical examination form. 
Each participant should report to 
the first team practice on Monday, 
August 24, with a completed 
physical form. 

The soccer team will hold its first 
practice from 4-6 p.m. at the IPFW 
soccer field. 

The women's volleyball team 



will hold its first practice from 3-5 
p.m. at the Concordia Theological 
Seminary Gymnasium. 

The cross country team should 
report to the Athletic Office at 3 
p.m. 

The men's and women's tennis 
teams should report to the IPFW 
tennis courts at noon. 

All students interested in joining 
a cheerleading squad should 
contact the Athletic Office. 

For further information, 
students should contact the 
Athletic Office in Walb Memorial 
Union. 



Fall sports schedules 



IPFW golf outing 

The sixth annual golf outing of 
IPFW will be held Thursday, Aug. 
13, at the Cedar Creek Golf Club. 

A tee-off lunch at 11:15 a.m. in 
the Cedar Creek clubhouse will 
precede the Florida scramble 
tournament. The players will tee- 
off at 1 p.m. from a shotgun start. 

All friends and alumni of IPFW 
are invited to attend. Reservations 
may be made by contacting the 
IPFW alumni office. 

The outing is being sponsored by 
the IPFW Alumni Society. 

Women^s tennis 

Sept. 5 — at St. Joseph's College 
Sept. 12— Huntington College 
Sept. 13— at St. Mary's College 
Sept. 19 — Goshen College &amp; St. 
Joe 
Sept. 24 — at Manchester College 
Oct. 3 — at Goshen College 
Oct. 12 — at Huntington College. 

Men^s soccer 

Sept. 5— Purdue-Calumet 
Sept. 8 — Fort Wayne Bible 
College 
Sept. 12- Bluff ton CoUege 
Sept. 15- at Indiana Central 
Sept. 19— Indiana Tech. 
Sept. 22 — at Ohio Northern 
University 
Sept. 26 — Grand Rapids Baptist 
Sept. 29 — at Tri-State Univer- 
sity 
Oct. 3 — at NorUi Park College 
Oct.6— atSl- Francis College 
Oct. 10 — al Grace College 
Oct. 15- Beihel College 
Oct. 17 — Marion College 
Oct. 21 — at Huntington College 
Oct. 24 — at Manchester College 
Oct. 27 — Concordia. 

Women^s 
volleyball 

Sept. 19 — City Tournament - 
IPFW, Fort Wa&gt;Tie Bible College, 



St- Francis College 
Sept. 22— Huntington College 
Sept. 27 — at St. Mary's College 

Invitational 
Sept. 29 — Tri-State University 
Oct. 1 — Anderson College 
Oct. 3 — at Goshen College, Ohio 

Nortiiern University, Huntington 

College 
Oct. 8 — at Bethel CoUege, 

Manchester College 
Oct. 10 — at Ohio Northern 

Invitational 
Oct. 13 — Valparaiso &amp; Taylor 
Oct. 15 — Goshen College 
Oct. 17 — at Purdue-Calumet 
Oct. 20 — Marion College 
Oct. 22 — at Earlham College 
Oct. 24 — at Taylor University, 

DePauw University, Huntington 

College, Indiana Central, Oakland 

City 
Oct. 27 — at Manchester College, 

Grace College, Huntington College 
Oct. 29 — St. Francis &amp; St. 

Joseph's 
Oct. 31 — at Marion CoUege, 

Grace CoUege 
Nov. 3 — at Marion CoUege 
Nov. 7 — ISU EvansvUle 
Nov. 10— OSU. Lima 
Nov. 12-14 — at State Tour- 
nament. 

Coed cross 

country- 
Sept. 15 — at Manchester 

CoUege, Grace College, Huntington 

College 

Sept. 19 — at Goshen CoUege, 

Huntington College 

Sept. 22— at Huntington College 

Sept. 25 — at Marion College 

Sept. 29 — at Marion CoUege 
Invitational 

Oct. 6 — at Taylor University 
Invitational 

Oct. 10 — at Tri-State University 
Invitational 

Oct. 16 — at Uttle State at 
Purdue 

Oct. 24 — at Goshen CoUege. 



McDonald's® and Orientation 




Fit this orientation speciai 
into your scliedule: 

COUPON 

FREE prder of l^rge trench fries 
with the-purchaspdi/any- large sandwich* 

*BiaM^c&lt;l' i\6uarterJounder® 
Quarter Poui^'^mc\^e/s«i® ■ 



Filet-o-Fish® 



5 Offer valid only at 



U 
3202'Si''i 

Offer expires 9-21-81 

1 One coupon per customer, please.\ 

Address for redemption:, 61 12 Copslitulloti tJjf.C'.fj 
Casii value 1/20 of one'^ent 

Quarter Pounder weitgit belore 

cooking 4 oz. (113.4 grams) 

l---TrrmiBag 




WORLD FAMOUS 



*'&amp;a^^t€Cf*^Pcd*' 






936 0Uum*k Siud. 7tMi6, 

K-mart Plaza East 



MILE NORTH of INTERNATIONAL 
HARVESTER— NEXT TO MOTEL 6 



^^l-l\^^ 



11 .00 am thru 3:00 am 



