Indiana Unive rsity ¥ Purdue University ¥ Fort Wayne 



INSIDE: 



The Communicator 

I The spice of variety g Miss Indiana? ■ The ongoing contest 

Almost 100 organizations exist at IPFW. Two IPFW students compete for the AD Mark Pope has wins losses 

And they're looking for members. Page 2 crown of Miss Indiana in June. Page 3 and goals for program. Page 9 



Volume 34, Issue 30 



www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Wednesday, May 19, 2004 



A turning of the tassel 



**2 - ^*\ ^M 



Over 1,600 IPFW stu- 
dents graduated from the 

ates, bachelor's and mas- 
ter's degrees May 12. 

Above, Dimples Smith 
(right) completes turning 
her tassel while Danyelle 
Easley and Dawn Finley 
begin applauding 

behind her. All three 
graduated with OLS 
degrees. 

Right, Nick Jackson 
advertises his need for 
employment as he listens 
to speakers. Jacksi 
graduated with a degrei 
in Business 

Management. 




WaterJMd prepares for residents 



Final inspections 
underway, RAs 
hired for housing 



During this summer, final 
touches are being added to the 
Waterfield Campus Student 
Housing due to open in August. 

IPFW ordered new inspec- 
tions, costing about $11,000, after 
questions were raised about possi- 
ble mold contamination at the loca- 

The result of the mold inspec- 
tions, conducted by Fort Wayne 
company Industrial Solutions 
Group, Inc., found no evidence of 
mold or mold-promoting condi- 
tions, ISG officials said. 

IPFW officials feel assured 
about the structures. 

"The results of this study con- 
firmed that our efforts are paying 
off, but rest assured that we will 
remain diligent so that we will be 
able to avoid issues in the future as 
well," IPFW Vice Chancellor of 
Financial Affairs Walt Branson said 

At a news conference 
announcing the findings, he 
emphasized IPFW students are the 

priority in the undertakings. 

"Our goal in this project all 
along was to create a safe environ- 




Pliolo by Scott M. Lawson 

IPFW Student Housing Director Jena Henson explains 
some of the furnished amenities inside each Waterfield 
Campus student housing units while giving a tour of a liv- 
ing room in May. 
ment for students," he said. And with Student Orientation 



able to house 568 students 
fall. Thus far, 322 appli 
Kin nllfd out for roo 
at Waterfield. 



t facilitv will be Advising F 



l (SOAR) tak- 



place throughoi 
ions have the office believes it will keep 
available receiving calls of interest. 

Student.-, renting at VV.itt-rfitld 



"We have been hoppin'. It's will begin moving in August 18 

definitely been a very active office, and continue through August 21, 
that's for sure," Student Housing 

Director Jena Henson said. Continued on Page 2 



IPFW standout 
Simon declares 
for NBA draft 



Junior may forego 
last college season 
to seek personal 
NBA 'dream' 

By Dan Vance 



Junior David Simon is one of 
43 college underclassmen to 

declare for the National Basketball 
Association's 2004 Draft. 

"I just kind of looked at the 
situation and everything and I had 
a pretty good season," said Simon. 
"People are coming out and 1 just 
thought it would be a good time 
for me to just go ahead and try." 

Simon averaged 18,1 points 
and 9.8 rebounds during the 2003- 
2004 season, his second with the 
Mastodons. Simon's decision was 
released on May 17 and announced 
officially at a press conference on 
May 18. 

He has been projected as a 
second round selection by NBA 
scouts and draft experts. Thai 
placement is one Simon plans to 
work on raising throughout the 
next month at pre-draft camps and 

What is widely considered Hie 
most influential pre-draft camp 
takes place on June 8 in Chicago, 
Simon is awaiting an official invite 
to that camp. 

"That (pre-draft camp) is 
going to give me a chance to figure 
exactly where I am at and we'll be 
able to get a clear idea of where 
everything is at," said Simon. 

Underclassmen have until 
June 17 to pull their names out of 
the running as long as they have 




David Sii 

Southeast Missouri State 

defenders during the 03'-04' 

not signed with an agent, which 
Simon has not. 

"I just want to keep my 
options open, 1 didn't sign with an 
agent or anything, so WorBl case 
scenario, I can come hack to school, 
but it Is my intention to go all the 
way through with this," said 



While Sii 



through the June 17 deadline, 
IPFW Head Coach Doug Noll (irm- 
ly believes a return to IPFW has not 
been ruled out. 

"Ifs not clear cut, I just think 

Continued on Page 9 



Presidential duties 



Senior to intern 
at the White 
House during 
summertime 



For the second year in a row, 
an IPFW student will be interning 
at the White House. 

And for the second year, it is 
the outgoing Student Body 
President. 

Senior Matt Shilling, who is 
transferring to Northwestern 
University for the fall semester, 
will work with the Special 
Assistant to the President and 
Director of Public Liaison, Tim 

"Working at the White House 
will be fast-paced with long hours, 
but it will be very rewarding," 
shilling ^.iid in a press release. 

The public affairs major con- 
tends it should be an exhilarating 
experience and is looking forward 
to the day-to-day situations that 

"Anything can happen, any- 
time. You read books or see televi- 




Outgoing IPFW Student 
Body President Matt 
Shilling will intern at the 
White House during this 
summer. 

sion shows about how things work 
but to experience it first-hand will 
be incredible," Shilling said. 

During the summer of 2003, 
former IPFW Student Body 
President Justin Busch was an 
the White House. Busch 




a journey to the stage 



Among the many 
IPFW programs, th 
Tlieatre Dept. has 
many talents, 
including senior 
page 6 Meiissa Dowty 




i year of many seasons 



IPFW sports had a 

year ofups and downs 
during 2003-2004. A 
photographic recap is 
shown in this edition's 
page 10 Sports section 




Page 2 The Communicator 



News 



May 19, 2004 




Waterfield 

Continue from Page One 

Henson said. 

According to Student Activities 
Board Programming Director Erin 
McConaha, SAB will provide some 
entertainment and activities during 
those move-in dates for the incoming 
residents. 

"We're going to welcome the 
freshmen and other students moving 
in tike they do at a traditional cam- 
pus with housing," McConaha said. 

And with those residents 
preparing to move-in, employees for 
the housing have be hired by Student 
Housing, including an assistant __ 

director and over a dozen Residents pl &gt;°'° ty Scotl M.'lmvson 

Assistants. Final touches are being completed at the Waterfield Campus Student Housing located across from IPFW this summer. 

About one-third of the 17 RAs 
are originally from foreign counties. "They really understand what a student is going to go Connecticut and even California. 

"They were some of the strongest candidates because through when they move away from home for that first time. The faces of IPFW may change with the units. 

they've been living on their own without their parents. They have a good grasp of what some of the students might "We're seeing students who are coming here from far dis- 

They've gone through ,i huge transition themselves," Henson go through," Henson added. tances. We have people who are coming here to look at IPFW 

explained. The housing, Henson believes, is going to be diverse in - even though they might not choose to come here - they 

She thinks the RAs will be a benefit to IPFW students Americans attending IPFW as well Some applications have might not have even looked here before because they didn't 
moving in. been from as far away as Pennsylvania, New Jersey, have a housing option," she said. 

Variety of organizations available to students 



At IPFW, there are over 90 dif- 
ferent organizations in which stu- 
dents tan participate, ranging trom 
the Accounting Society to the 
Waterski and Wakeboard Team. 
Here is a listing of the groups and 
primary contact information as of 
Spring 21)04 More information on 
these groups can be found at 
www.iphv.edu/stulife. 

De partmental Organizations 

* Accounting Society: I urns Hover 
at 450-3607 or email as@ipfw.edu. 

* Agriculture and Pie-Vet Club: 
Angela Koble at 485-1191 or email 
afc@ipfw.edu. 

* American Choral Directors 
Association: Dan Baker at 625-4207 
or email acda@ipfw.edu. 

* American Medical Student 
Association - Pre Med Club 
( AMSA): Phil Ruckman at 750-7825 
or email 
iphv_pre_med@yahoo.com. 

* American Production Inventory 
Control Society (APICS): Eric 
Caydos at 348-7303 or email 
eric 1 094@hotmail.com. 

' American Society of Interior 
Designers: Tamara Lickey at 344- 
3049 or email ttltckey@ctlnect.com. 
' American Society of Mechanical 
Lngineers: Mark Moenssens at 4 1 '0- 
8349 or email 

nimmoenssens@aol.com. 
' Anthropology Club: Eric Mory at 
744-3909 or email 

anthrir/Dipfw.edu. 

* Art Students League: Justin 
Casiano at 749-1033 or email 
casianajSVynhoo.com. 

* Association for Computing 
Machinery: Atanas Vanchev at 418- 
7731 or email vancatOK'apfwecki 

* IPFW Band Student 
Organization: Noah Diehm at 478- 
1037 or email band@ipfw.edu. 

' Biology Club: Spencer Ritenour at 
489-8917 or email 

bioclub@iprw.edu, 

* Ceramics Club: facc@iphv.edu 

Computer In forma lion 

Association: Ken Jaeger at 486-6486 
or email cia@iphv.edu. 

* Criminal Justice Fraternity: 
Lesley Lykins at 436-1209 or email 




hosp@ipfw.edu. 

* Human Services Organization 
Patricia Eber at 481-6424 or email 
ebcip" iphv.edu. 

* Institute of Electrical Electronics 
Engineers: Jimmy LaMaster at 450- 
4637 or email ieee@ipfw.edu. 

" Marketing Club: Brittany Hess at 
639-7311 or email 

lit-— b.iOlO'iphv.edu. 

* Music Educators National 
Conference: Dr. Barbara Resch at 
481-6726 or email menc@iphv.edu. 

* Music Therapy Club: Mareta 
Spencer at 483-7056 or email 
mtso@iphv.edu. 

* Pharmacy Club: Chris Liston at 
625-6343 or email 
C'li.ii imj-ipfw.edu. 

* PHI (Philosophy Club): Email 

' PI Math Club: Doug Townsend at 
481-6235 or email pi@ipfw.edu. 

* Political Science Club: 

Sarah Wimer at 338-0102 or 
email mhschemic@aol.com. 

* Psychology Club: Natalie 
Pettigrew at 436-2274 or 
email psychcb@ipfw.edu. 
" Society for Human 
Resource Management: 
Valerie M. Potchka at 436- 
2969 ' or email 
shrm@iphv.edu. 

* Society of Automdtive 
Engineers: Matthew 
Ehrman at 639-6708 or 



email dgmelly3169@yahoo.com. 

* Visual Design Association: Scott 
Sarvay at 493-7580 or email danc- 

ing_nancies_bl@hotmail.com. 

Honor Societies 

* Beta Beta Beta: Spencer Ritenour 
at 602-9311 or email 

spencerit@comcast.net. 

* Phi Theta Kappa: Sarah Beckman 
at 481-6274 or email 
alkapnu@iphv.edu. 

* Pi Mu Epsilon: Lowell Beineke at 
481-6223 or email 
beineke@ipfw.eda. 

* Psi Chi: Craig Hill at 481-6403 or 
email psjchi@ipfw.edu. 

* Sigma Alpha Iota: Anastasia 
Blaettener at 639-3117 or email 
sai@iphv.edu. 

* Tau Alpha Pi: Vicky Hogge at 
481-5731 or email 
vicky_hogge@ieee.org. 



The Bangladesh Student Association held Di 
Bangladesh in early December celebrating the culture of 
the Asian nation. About 250,000 Bangladesh citizens live in 
the United States. At IPFW, the Bangladeshi's population 
has been very active in BSA and are always looking for 
more membership. 




cjc@iphv.edu. 

* Educators for Excellence: 1 loll 
McNally at 492-4468 or emai: 



geixluh".' , iphv.edu. 
* Graduate Business Council: 
Tanveer Wahid at 481-6563 or 
email gbc@iphv.edu. 
The Finance Society: Mark * History Club of IPFW: Shannon 
Johnson at 636-7675 or email hist- 
clubipfw@yahoo.com. 
• The French Club of IPFW: Seth * IPFW Honors Activity Council: 



Drayer at 597-7344 

IrenchcbyJipfw.edu. 

' Geosciences Club: Hope Sheets a 



Ryan Brown at 484-1624 &lt; 

ho nors'")! pfw.edu. 

* IPFW Hospitality Club: Lau 



email DiSilvertio ..it 4 lo-UMc, 



* Society of Manufacturing I 
Engineers (SME): Randy 
Savage at 486-2703 or ei 
sme@iphv.edu. 

* Society of Women I 
Engineers: Annita Arispe at file photo 

433-6741 or email Members of Universal Gaming 

swe@engr.ipfw.edu. Association gathered Friday nights 

* Speech and Hearing Club: ,„_ 1A , . ■ , , . 
Kristi Loy at 47S-6353 or at IPFW to en J°y ™le-playing 
email kloy@aol.com. games like Dungeons and Dragons 

* Student Affiliates of the along with many others. 
American Chemical Society: 

Travis' Acra at 627-5267 or email 

acs@ipfw.edu. Religious Organizations 

" Student American Dental * Campus Ministry: Ben Gates at 

Hygienists Association: Nancy 481-6992 or email 

Mann at 481-6569 or email gatesb@ipfw.edu. 

mannn@iphv.edu. * Church of Christ Organization: 

* Student Theatre Organization: Terrail Kizer or Brian Hill at 486- 
Melissa Dowry at 627-3169 or Continued on Page 8 



Scott M. Lawson, Editor 

S.G. Wahlborg, Managing Editor 

Kurtis Meyers, Arts &amp;. Entertainment 1 

Nick West, Sports Editor 

Katie Pruitt, Copy Editor 

K.E. Casey, Chief Reporter 

Josh Vargas, Advertising Designer 

Aiden Bordner. Advertising Manager 

I)orie Reynolds. Publisher 



Editorial Polici 



The Communicator 
Walb Union; Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 4680S 

Editor: (260)481-6584 

Publisher: (260) 481-6585 

Advertising: (260) 481-6583 

Fax: (260)481-6045 

www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



: opim 

r. The _ r _ 

ions expressed do not necessari- 
ly reflect the views of IPFW. its 
employees or its student body. A 
column is solely the opinion of 
its author. 

The Communicator wel- 
comes responses from readers. 
Letters to the Editor and guest 
columns must he signed, dated 
and accompanied by a current 



ered for publicat 



All submissions made via e- 
mail will be verified by tele- 
phone or in person. Addresses 
and telephone numbers will not 
be published. 

Submissions must be typed, 
double-spaced and no more than 
400 words. 

The editorial board of The 
Communicator reserves the 
right to edit all submissions lor 
leneUi. grammar, style and clar- 
ity. "Let fe is deemed libelous by 



be 



the oJiioiui hoard will . . . 
published under any circum 
stances. 



News 

IPFW plates are 
now available for 
reservation for '05 



IPFW officials are 
reminding students, faculty, 
staff and employees who are 
wanting the new IPFW 
license plate to sign up soon. 

The license plate, which 
is due to hit the streets in 
2005, will feature the IPFW 
logo on the left side of the 



license. It was passed 
through legislation as a spe- 
ciality plate in the 2003-2004 
session of the Indiana 
Assembly. 

Those interesting in 
reserving a plate for their car 
in 2005 can do so now by 
going to the IPFW website 
www.ipfw.edu. Questions 
can be addressed to IPFW 
Alumni Relations at 481- 
6807. 



Two IPFW students 
competing for Miss 
Indiana title in June 



Two IPFW students will 
take to the stage in June 
when they compete for the 
title of Miss Indiana taking 
place at Indiana State 
University in Terre Haute. 

Graduating senior 

Melanie Bush, who recently 
won the title "Miss Fort 
Wayne" and freshman 
Maude-Jo Baczynski, who 
was crowned Miss IPFW in 
the fall of 2003, are slated to 
compete June 10-12 for the 



title. 



Bush, who graduated 






for 




healthier America. The 21- 
year-old from Fort Wayne 
wants to become a medical 
doctor and researcher. Melanie Bush 

Baczynski, a 19-year-old cle. Her career goal is to 
from Kendallville, is major- become a professional tap 
ing in Business. Her platform dancer and own her own 
is motivating people to recy- business. 

Activities aplenty 
during school year 

Staff Report noted in April. 

The Communicator Tne club ' s varieties go 

from the general (French 
Club, History Club) to the 
seemingly more specific 
(American Choral Directors 
Association, Anime 101); 
from the tame-sounding (PI 
Math Club, Campus Girl 
Scouts) lo the sometimes 
controversial (Equal Rights 
Education Network, Pagan 
StLkleiii Alliance). 

The Student Activities 

Board also attempts to hold a 

riety of events throughout 



From the Omnibus 
Lecture Series which tradi- 
tional features prominent 
figures in a variety of fields 
to NCAA Division I sporting 
events, IPFW has a variety of 
activities taken place 
throughout the year. 

During 2003-2004, 

IPFW had visits from college 
broadcasting legend Dick 
Vitale; "Saved By The Bell" 
star Dennis Haskins, who 
has gained a cult following 
as Mr. Belding; and Civil 
Rights leader Jesse Jackson. 

And that didn't even 
include the Omnibus Series, 
which featured writers, 
actors and activists who are 
known throughout the 
nation for their stands on 

IPFW students also 
have dozens of different 
organizations they have the 
ability to join. 

"We want to find some- 
thing here for everyone. 
With 92 student organiza- 






the schoolve. 
students st 
entertained 

In the i 
included concerts from 
O.A.R., The Dave Matthews 
Cover Band and comedian 
Dairy] Hammond. 

"We want to do again a 
fall concert and midday 
diversions," SAB 

Programming Director Erin 
McConaha said. 

Determining who will 
perform when is the subject 
of summer planning of SAB, 
she noted. 

"We're collecting 

ideas," McConaha 

explained. 



Have a serious interest in journalism? 

The 2004-2005 staffing of 

The Communicator is underway. 

Stop by Walb 215 and get involved. 



Fact: 

The best place to get 

your textbooks is not in 

Kettler Hall. 




It's at 

The Bookmark. 

Tired of paying too much for your textbooks every year? Does it seem like the big 

book stores make you wait in line for hours, only to charge you a fortune? 

There is an alternative. The Bookmark buys and sells used textbooks for IPFW 

courses, and we've recently expanded in order to serve you better. We have the 

best prices around on the books you need, plus we'll buy back your current texts 

from last year. Our friendly staff will be happy to help you find the right textbooks for 

your courses, even if all you have is a class schedule. So stop standing in line, stop 

paying more, and get to The Bookmark for your college textbooks. You'll be glad 

you did! 

Looking for something to do between classes? 

The Bookmark has more than just your textbooks! We also offer 

• An extensive collection of classics 

• Pre-owned good condition paperbacks 

• Pre-owned cookbooks, sports books, fitness books, etc. 

• Childrens books 

• Many, many more titles! 

B&amp;knjaik 

Your Off Campus Book I 

Call Today: 484-B00K 

Located just south of the IPFW campus on North Anthony Blvd, next to Wooden Nickel. 
Hours: Monday - Thursday: 10 - 7 / Friday: 10 - 6 / Saturday: 10 - 5 / Closed Sunday 



Visit us on the web at www.thebookmark.net 



Page A The Communicator 



Opinions 



May 19, 2004 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or 

abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the 

right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the 

government for a redress of grievances. 






j/^ ^^ 



Editorials 

"Brain Drain' is okay, 
Not using it isn't 

There has been .in ongoing fear of "I3r&lt;iin I )rain" of Hoosier graduates leaving the state and 
going to more fertile economic and career bettering locations. So here is our advise to graduates: Go. 
Wherever you can. While lawmakers and stile officials fear "brain drain" will be the ruin of Indiana, 
it is a silly paranoia. What will ruin a state in the long run is stagnation of creative thought - and if 
people stay in one place too long (either physically, cnmliuii.il or mentally), stagnation sets in. 

This isn't meant as disrespect to those who choose to stay in Indiana on a lifelong basis. This 
is jusl an encouragement logo drain the brain elsewhere Many of us raised Hoosiers will eventually 

return to Indiana. It may notbeln six months, it may be in a few years, Derhapsevena few decades. 
But we'll return. And what we will return with will be extensive knowledge of ourselves and how 
we act with (he rest of the world. 

Go with your trawls and experience the congestion ot Smgap ire subways, the heat of the 
Middle East sunrises on the coast of Charleston and sunset at the shores of San Diego. Because we're 
young and now is the time to do these things. 

Go with your career and don't be afraid to brainstorm new ideas when idle swamps of busi- 
nesvavusu.il start driving you and your co-workers batt\'. Try to make a difference in lives, even 
when hoping to make a difference is curtailed by having to sell retail to make end's meet During 
those semi-tortures of life's t areers, don't forge! the possibility' of seeking out volunteer organizations 
like Big Brothers/Big Sisters to make a difference. 

Indiana is a great state, but there are lots of places to see and people to meet. By seeking out- 
side inspiration, those who return here will strengthen the state. Brain Drain has been taking place 
since I lomo I'n simians began walking out of Africa. Don't feel bad for wanting to continue human 
evolution by evi living youiselE Ihose who fret about Brain Drain often cite economic troubles they 
feel will be associated with it, but Europe still seems to be able to work with all the Brain Drain they 
lost in the last two centuries - and most of us aren't looking at living out of the country as a career or 
lifestyle. 

Another summer at war 

Eventually, fori Wayne is going to lose a military member in our ongoing wars. 
It's going In be someone you may know, someone \ou may love. It's going to be a tragedy 
thai will afteil family and friends lor decades And we're going to have to ask if it was worth the 

Only pacifists tended to argue against retaliating against the Sept 11 attacks. Only constrict- 
ed-thinking individuals now continue to argue Iraq had something to do with Sept. 11. We're fighting 
a Kittle on the wrong battlefield and we' a* not sure how to get out while saving face. 

Don't save face. Save our military who have been given a mission they shouldn't have been 
sent info with Poland and 1 tanduras as their backing force We need to understand our mistakes and 
leam from them. Our government pressed us into this action on flimsy intelligence and cowboy men- 
tality. Our government pressed us into this action alluding to the souls of the victims of 9-11 and 
potential missiles hitting us from Baghdad. 

With the controversies of prisoner abuse, we have tripped up ourselves by not adhering to 
the Geneva Convention throughout both of our conflicts so far. By not upholding adversaries the 
right to POW status, we have left our own troops in a situation where no terrorist organization is 
going to even contemplate any type of mercy for us. Would they otherwise? Doubtful. But the odds 
might have been a percentage or two better had we followed common sense and the Geneva 
Convention from the get-go. 

This isn't a Republican/ Democratic philosophical debate. Both sides have been weak on this. 
George Bush is an embarrassment 80 percent of the time, and a deer- in-head lights the other 20 per- 
cent. John Kerry is a Kennedywannabe St) percent of tine time, and a weak-spined politician the other 
20 percent. For yet another election, we will have to choose the better of two evils - and neither of 
which will likely do what is right for our military. 

Our military is going a good job in a bad situation. Ifs time they are able to find a better situ- 
ation. It might be another battle in another country, but it would likely be a much more worthy fight 
for which to die. 

Eventually, Fort Wayne is going to lose a military member to our battles, and we're going to 
ask if it was worth the price 



Word of the Week: 
Bovine 



Lock up the condoms, put cream in all the food, make sure to get to Church on 
time and don't sell alcohol on Sundays; we're in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 

When Tim Allen was arrested for selling cocaine, he was arrested in Fort 
Wayne, Indiana. When Johnny Appleseed died, he was buried in Fort Wayne, 
Indiana. They subsequent!) surrounded his grave with cherry trees. When Philo 
T. Farnsworth invented the telev ision, he was in fort Wayne, Indiana. 

You'd think that with all Fort Wayne has going for it, it wouldn't suck so much. 

Well, Fort Wayne doesn't suck. It's just lame. Most of the Fort Wayne citizens 
have more in common with cows than the rest of humanity. They go about their 
routines, blind ly following the leader, hardly ever pausing to birth an independ- 
ent thought. That's why they call it the City of Churches: when you don't want 
lo think for yourself, yon build a church and let vour Good Book do it for you. 

Last summer 1 moved to Fort Wayne trom Seattle, Washington. The move, cul- 
turally, was like stepping 50 years back in time. Youth culture in Fort Wayne is 
nearly nonexistent With the exclusion of a few 18 and under clubs, there are very 
few chances for \oung people to go out and have fun away from their overbear- 
ing parents. Homosexual and deviant culture in Fort Wayne bears the extremist 
mark that comes only from heavy social oppression. It's nearly impossible to be 
served respectfully and expediently at a restaurant unless you've got a man with 
you. Even then, the food is bland, marked by too much cream sauce and too lit- 
tle attention to how ethnic foods are made in their countries of origin. 

Hardly anyone in Fort Wayne, Indiana is interested in anything that happens 
outside of the city limits. 

This was my dilemma upon arriving here friendless, without a car and lethal- 
ly bored: how does one have a social life when all her local peers are little more 
thanbovines in disguise? 1 spent nearly two months u asting away in my house, 
desperately searching the internet and the paper for something in Fort Wayne 
that would allow me to interact with people my age I tried a pottery class, but 
met with disappointment when I found out there were a grand total of two peo- 
ple enrolled, im hiding myself, and that it was stashed away in a janitorial closet 
at the Fort Wayne Community Center, Eventually, my salvation came: the fall 
semester started up at IPFW. 

Compared to either one of its parent universities, student life at IPFW is rather. . 
limited. However, compared to the rest of Fort Wayne, IPFW is the place to be. 
There are opportunities here that are not available anew here else in the city. 
IPFW provides opportunities to participate in student groups, athletics, and 
other activities that simply do not exist in the surrounding community. 

At first I thought IPFW was small and stifling, much like the city it's located in, 
but after a few weeks I started looking around at the various fliers and pamphlets 
that fitter the campus and found that there are seemingly endless chances to get 
involved with student life. There are clubs for jusl about every major, omnibus 
lectures, athletics, a variety of special interest groups, and, my personal favorite, 
the student newspaper, to name a few. I found a social life and something to 
occupy my time, and suddenly. Fort Wayne didn't suck so much. 

If you are in the same position I was- stuck in Tort Wayne, going to IPFW, and 
hopelessly bored and disappointed with life - do not despair. You're not as iso- 
lated as you think. There are plenty of opportunities to get out of the house and 
entertain yourself right here on campus While starting out college at a place 
you'd rather not be is less than pleasant, at IPFW, it's not as terrible as it first 
appears. 



The 

Communicator 

Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed i: 
editorials or opinion columns do not necessarily reflect the views of IPFW, it 
employees or its student body. A column is solely the opinion of the author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from readers. All Letters to th&lt; 
Editor and guest columns in List he signed, da led and accompanied by acurrenl 
valid address, telephone number, and class standing/major or title. Telephone 
numbers and addresses will not be printed. All submissions made vie e-mail 
will be verified by telephone or in person. 

The editorial board reserves the right to edit all submissions for length, gram- 

lar, style and clarity. 




CAjMjPUS 



"What is your favorite part of IPFW?' 




ture is really great. 



May 19, 2004 



Opinions 



The Communicator Page 5 



College Students: ]etters to .hejn ditor 

political couch potatoes 



Liberty, like human muscle, atro- 
phies if not exercised. And 
although students are among the 
citizens best mentally and physi- 
cally equipped to be active in the 
political processes of our democra- 
cy, as of late, they have become its 
worst enemy: political couch pota- 

In light of the upcoming election, 
I want to express my view on the 
good nature and good logic of vot- 
ing. Get out and do it; it's worth it 
in the long run. 

Our Constitution, Bill of Rights, 
and body of law guarantee us 
many individual and group free- 
doms including of those of press, 
speech, assembly, privacy, voting, 
religion, etc. Only a minority of 
people on this planet enjoy such 
rights. 

We in the U.S. are among the 
lucky few. 

But with this luck comes a 
responsibility to protect these free- 
doms and extend them to others. 

Contrary to what the right wing 
ideologues and Hollywood moguls 
would have us believe, freedoms 
are most often threatened not by 
foreign invaders, but from within, 
by lazy citizens. The dregs of socie- 
ty taking advantage of the good 
nature and goodwill of the govern- 
ment they helped set up. 

And freedoms are not usually 
extended to others by bloody wars 
for democracy, but by education 
and grassroots empowerment. The 
greatest sin in the political world, 
then, it seems, is the citizen's, who 
having freedom chooses not to use 

By not taking action (or, even 
worse, not voicing an opinion) on 
the important issues of our day, we 
do a disservice to the population 
impacted negatively by the issue, 
to our own consciences and to the 
freedoms we take for granted as an 
integral part of our free country. 

We basically let others win by 
holding back. When people do not 
heed the call of change in our pres- 
ent democratic government, we let 
the opposing side win and let an 
almost authoritarian ideology 
reign supreme. Much like Nazi 
Germany of the 1930's and 40's. 

It's obvious that we disserve 
those who are hurt by our negli- 
gence to speak or act. Women who 
will die from back-room abortions; 
homeless men, women and chil- 



dren forced to live on the streets; 
weekend marijuana users serving 
time in prisons; the disproportion- 
ate number of minorities receiving 
capital punishment; and our planet 
(which is being ravaged by pollu- 
tion) are just a few of the victims of 

We also violate our own con- 
sciences when we fail to act on our 
beliefs. A belief not acted on is not 
a beb'ef at all, but a mask behind 
which our lesser selves hide. What 
would have happened to the world 
if Martin Luther King Jr. hadn't 
marched in Washington D.C.? 
Where would Cuba be if Castro 
hadn't led a coup? Granted, Cuba 
is communist but by God they are a 
pretty successful country. 

Remember the individual's con- 
science is the bulwark of our con- 
stitutional democracy. Our 
founders protected it above all else: 
giving it precedence over the gov- 
ernment, and even the will of the 
majority. They did this because 
they realized that it is from the 
individual conscience that human 
progress is made. It is never the 
majority that develops and pro- 
motes a new idea leading to 
human advancement, but a minor- 
ity or a single individual. As 
Hunter S. Thompson said, "When 
the going gets weird, the weird 

Finally, when we fail to partici- 
pate in our representative democ- 
racy, we betray those freedoms we 
are lucky to have (and oft times 
claim we hold most dear). Lazy cit- 
izens encourage corruption. When 
they choose not to use their politi- 
cal power, some other individual 
always steps into the vacuum. 

When lazy citizens choose to 
remain uneducated on current 
events and issues, those with 
money harness their political 
power by using flashy advertise- 
ments and other manipulations of 
the media to hook them into acting 
against their own and society's best 
interests. 

When this happens (as it often 
does: S &amp; L scandal, federal budget 
deficit, nuclear power and 
weapons proliferation, tobacco and 
milk subsidies, CIA abuses, ram- 
pant pollution, etc.), the decisions 
of politicians are led away from 
protecting individual rights and 
social goodwill toward protecting 
their own personal interests or the 



who back them. 



This not only takes away from 
our liberties, but it starts the coun- 
try in a downward spiral. 

It is up to the students of today 
to take the lead in our participatory 
democracy. They have had the 
greatest advantage our society 
offers: the advantage of an educa- 

And they owe it to their country, 
their society and all the less fortu- 
nate people of their planet to use 
their education to help make our 
country and our world better. 

Students not only have the edu- 
cation, but also the energy and the 
opportunity to make these impor- 
tant and necessary changes. They 
will one day have the most influ- 
ence/ becoming the leaders of 



Welcome to home of slow, 
but durable, Mastodons 



So, freshmen, it's official: 
you're a Mastodon. 

My editors told me to write 
my article about advice for incom- 
ing students, but I think there are 
few people less qualified to give 
advice than me. (After all, I 
thought it was a good idea to take 
seventeen hours of classes, work 
for The Communicator and have a 
job as a data entry clerk this past 
semester.) More importantly, as 
incoming college students, you 
have already suffered enough lec- 
tures and advice from parents and 
teachers (and if you haven't yet 
endured this, you will get plenty of 
wisdom at your SOAR registra- 

Even if you are just starring 
your first semester of college, we 
all cannot help but think ahead. As 
a high school senior, making it to 
the end of my first year of college 
was unthinkable; I wouldn't even 
let myself think ahead to the end of 
the year. And even now, after mak- 
ing through my first year, I still 
can't think of what kind of rule one 
could use to measure the success of 
a first-year student. Each situation 
is different, and every individual 
holds themselves up to a different 
measure of quality. Even the grad- 
ing scales can't standardize suc- 



cess. After all, an A may be the only 
option for some students, while a C 
may be the best other students can 
hope for. So I can only guess what 
"success" for the average college 
student really represents. For first- 
year students, I would say the best 
measure is summarized in two 

I would hope that every stu- 
dent who started school here at 
IPFW would make it past their first 
year. Each new wave of freshmen 
brings new faces, talent and bewil- 
derment to the college campus; it 
sustains and rejuvenates the cam- 
pus body. Despite the seemingly 
static face of the town, I can think 
of no better time to be in Fort 
Wayne, at IPFW than now. New 
housing, a bridge that has changed 
the Fort Wayne landscape, and 
plans for more buildings seem light 
years away from going to classes in 

What makes our campus dif- 
ferent from Bloomington or West 
Lafayette (besides millions of dol- 
lars) is the makeup of our campus. 
We aren't just the 18-25 demo- 
graphic; from high-school students 
taking one or two classes to stu- 
dents with families and established 
careers, the student body can be 
hard to define. Yet more and more 
we find ourselves moving towards 
a more traditional campus atmos- 
phere. And as I wrote in a previous 



Word of the 

Week should be 

'misunderstood' 



Deal i dJtor, 

I would li 

Wordol l\wV 



: Bel 



They, for the most part, also have 
the advantage of not yet having the 
entanglements of more established 
individuals: family, mortgage, car 
payments, and job security to force 
them to compromise their princi- 
ples, or materialistic greed to cloud 

It is up to our educated, forward 
thinking, idealistic and energetic 
students to provide the impetus lor 
chance. 

We can again be a prosperous 
nation that shares its wealth and 
freedoms with all its citizens and 
all other peoples of the world. But 
this can happen only if the educat- 
ed youth of America cam the free- 
doms they have been given by 
exercising their political rights, 
using their education, tapping 
their boundless energies and let- 
ting their conscience^ and idealism 
point them in the right direction. 

With freedoms, like talents, it's 
use 'em or lose 'em. A democracy is 
only as successful as its citizens are 
vigilant, hard working and virtu- 
ous. There are no easy answers to 

Realize, students, you have no 
magical remote control to change 
the channels. If you want to stop 
watching the spread of poverty, 
pollution and repression in this 
country and around the world, get 
up off your butts and change the 
channel to peace, prosperity and 
environmental responsibility. 

In a democracy we always get 
the government no matter what. 

But you know, when you express 
your ideas and take action to 
achieve them, benefit is what you 
get. 

You'll have that. 



21 s ' h 

I love the concept 
the Week.'' The word WB8 
"Fornication,'' and I read it and 
decided a much better word for the 
words that followed the title 
would be "Misunderstanding." 

I agree it is unfair that women are 
called "Sluls" and men are called 
"Studs" for being sexual hyperac- 
tive. However, I think many Ihings 
were misunderstood about sex 
Notice, I said sex not fornication. 

First of all, women and men are 
designed differently this is olni 



the write Bays she can understand 
the regrets ol hangovers and over- 
doses, she can't see why anyone 

would rogtvl se\ outside of mar- 
riage 1 will point out the obvious 
Rrsl Sexual!) active people have 

more chances ol netting STD's. 
Yeah, yeah I know you can learn 
this from any pub Hi service 

» syphilis also can lead to 



ous looking at th 




daily the parts u 












men, and men an 




ike women. Now 


1 am not saying 


ts wrong for mei 


to know how to 


:ook and dress themselves, nor am 


saying that wor 
home bare-foot 


nen should stay 


and pregnant. 


Afhat I am saying 


s we are made to 


compliment each 


&gt;lher, not mimic 


each other. 




Men love sex, a 


gain another late 


breaking story. V\ 


e need physical 


ove. Women on 


the other hand. 


usually don't era 




ove, but the emo 


ional love. They 



tendern lea and desires" In us for a 



derstanding of this leelmg is lusi. 
No opponents oi this article will 
use wnal the writer said we would 
use when she wrote, "Sex is bad! 
Sex is evil!" We don't think that, we 
think sex is awesome, more than 



I llsl j. 



sevil. 

re night 



it affection. So all of a sudden 
men have confused affection as 
sex, and women confuse sex as 
affection from a man. These are 
two different types of love that are 
confused. When Iwo people are 
married they can more understand 
how to fulfill these needs, and 
many others. 



irld is th 
that denying our natural urges [I 
acceptable behavior." Previously in 
the piece sex was a "natural and 
enjoyable." Now we all have natu- 
ral urges. For example after lunch 
every day in my 1:30 class I have a 
natural tendency. Due to the natu- 
ral process of digestion, I have a 
build up methane gas that I desire 
to release. After a short amount of 
thought I repress this desire. Later 
in the class the teacher is continu- 
ing to lecture and it is three min- 
utes past time that class is over. I 
have an overwhelming urge to 
stand up and scream, "Shu! up, 1 
hate this class and you are making 
me late for work." Again I decide 
not to do so. Why did I stop 
myself? Well, because I had a quick 
meeting with my conscience and 
decided that it wouldn't be the 
right thing to do. It was agreed that 
it wouldn't be in the best interest of 
the people around me. 

I think that there are some huge 
regrets to fornication. Even though 



While I did disagree with many 
of the author'9 points, I strongly 
concur with some. Like the one 



.■mug i 



i Ihat • 



inl lor i,k king of the 

women in bed. Guys need to deal 
with this Lust is strong, but that is 
noj .in ex,i use Yeah it will be lough 
to ignore, bill I know a guy who 
could help you, Mel Gibson made 
a movie about him six weeks ago. 
Besides, after a guy's quest to beat 
Will Chamberlain's record ends 
and he finds himself actually in 
love with a woman, I bet he just 
might regret all the women of his 
past. Yes, I think it is unfair that 
women are called sluts but if you 
don't want to be called that then 
stop doing whatever it is you are 
doing to make people call you that. 
It could be just the way you dres9 
like Britney Spears, the statement 
from the author I most agree with 
is ihe last senlence, "There is only 
one thing to feel bad for: being 
someone you are not for the sake of 
appearance." I agree, I shouldn't 
care what others think of me and 
my convictions, the God who 
made me has the only opinion that 



column, hopefully we will be los- 
ing our apathetic mentality as well. 
Of course, our buildings are mis- 
matched and built on a shoestring 
budget, our amenities are limited 

butt! 

right direction. In a way it reminds 
me of our mascot — slow moving, 
but durable. 

Granted, when IPFW chose a 
school mascot they could have cho- 
sen a nobler animal — maybe some- 
thing not extinct, for example — but 
I still think it fits our campus well. 
This is a place full of contradic- 
tions, and so it is no surprise that 
such a young campus has a pre- 

So what now? 

Things won't be radically dif- 
ferent for most incoming students. 
School is school, no matter what 
degree your instructor holds. The 
bookstore will never stop scam- 
ming students; the parking lots 
will always cause problems and 
the walk to Williams Theatre will 
always make students late to class. 

We aren't a noble or even 
notable campus — right now at 
least. But every person who i 



and better themselves. 

And so while I can't give you 
any advice, I think that is some- 
thing worth remembering. 



DO YOU HAVE AN OPINION ABOUT L 

a 

SOMETHING IN THE COMMUNICATOR? I 

1 
| 

Make your voice heard. I 



Submit a Letter to the Editor | 

i 

AND LET EVERYBODY KNOW WHAT 1 



Letters to the Editor should be no more thar 
.even hundred words long. Submit youi 
houghts directly to The Communicator 
Suite 215, Walb Student Union, or email their 
o stupaper@ipfw.edu. Remember to include 
'our name, phone number, and your emai 
iddress, if you have one. This information i; 
leeded solely for verification purposes. Only 
'our name will be printed in the paper. 



Page 6 The Communicator 



A&amp;E 

arts and entertainment- 



May 19, 2004 




jJSjk^li&amp;sw 




The Journey oj an IPFW Theatre Major 

By Kurtis Meyers ■' was fun to see how far the 

tk i",» mm . .„;,.,(„■. direclor, Harvey, would let me 

go, which was pretty tar into 

crazy land." 

It was also a bit part that is 
In the 1950 film, "All About Eve/' Bill Sampson (played by counted as her teas! favorite, and 
Gary Merrill) exclaim- "Wherever there's magic and make "'^ ' s lhl ' role as a Functionary 
believe and an audienc 
DoWty may not break i 
magitian or a large crow 
just the s. 



Dowry, an ll'FW Theai 
December, was recently wn r 

UronAM.mr^ and lead 

"If you can't tell, 'l was 
insisted. 

After the pompom craz 
wanting to be a vet, probably s 
which continues today 






n around 
Dowry planned on 



nsatiable required her 

stage and create ner own animal 
duate in language 

"Yeah, I definitely paid my 






Butt) 



,. :,' 



.,11,1. 



street-urchin boy in the choTUj 
had a solo and everything." 

After the show closed, Dowty said, she had such a feelin, 
of euphoria, thai sire no longer t|iiestioned when? her life vvouli 
take her. 

'] knew hoi o thai point on 1 i\ anted lo spend the ri'-l ot m 



had lead or bit parts 

A Mattress," "She I o 
Charley?," "On the 
"love, PaasiOTl and 
"Macbeth.'TheTer 

tioned, Dowty has 

town, ranging from I 
Fort Wayne Youthe. 



with that shi 

Dowty was bom in Fort 
Wayne on July 29th, 1982, to her 
parents, Nancy and Ron ("like 

the Reagans, Republican and 
all") and grew up in Leo. She 
has five brothers and one sister, 

from her love ot horses, and her place in the chronologi- 
cal order is "somewhere in the 

orsewoman," she said. middle," she said. 

ie turned 12. She credits her parents for 

ver.' and was cast as a her attitude towards success and 

really excited because I ^ ^ general. 



laded, she then moved &lt; 



"Blood Wedding 
it. In addition the above men- 
i other pnxluctions around 



"They showed me that you 
don't know if you can do it or not 
if you don't try," she said, "and I 
try to continue that tradition 

As for her schooling, 
Dowty was originally just a 
Theatre Major but now she has 
bumped that status up to 
Theatre Major with a Emphasis 
on Directing. She hopes that the 
emphasis on directing will help 
her understand the craft. 

"Understanding how to 



'''Them 



ie role of Crone in "Snow White" lor the direct ■ 

re, to the role of Crystal in the Arena me a better actor." 
entation of "Little Shop of Horrors." Working day and night 

ed three KC/ ACTF Irene Ryan nomina- with school, theatre, and work is 

iikl-s in "She loves Me," "The Heiress," not enough tor Dowty. In addi- 

attress.' Hon to her already hefty sched- Mel 

3 great time doing shows here at IPFW. tile, Dowty is also a proud 

_. .__ &lt;.___■_.!. ... iv,r ,.( mrui't rioit.-. r-.* 




Dowty, IPFW Theatre Major, will graduate in December of 2004 



e often paired up with b er of IPFW's Delta Gamma Women's Fraternity. Dowry is as be a cast memher in the Summer Revue at IPFW during the 
some of the same people, and that is true in her case. Dowty thankful tor the wonderful leadership opportunities available to ln,w R'^rs Festival this 
often appears opposite lack Stat khotise, an assignment she wel- nt ' r through the fraternity, not to mention the chance to conf 



But that's 
the family tradition. ' "I will also be teaching acting for junior high and high 

"Mv mother is a Delta Gamma," she said. school kids through the Community' Arts Academy, and have I 

Throughout her college career, Dowty has remained a very a ;' so n ' ue A freelance gig in l : .vansville." t ^ jt _ 
e member, even serving as President tor a tew of them. Her Four years of schooling isn't enough lor Dowty, however. , 

We enthusiasm for the Delta Gamma chapter is not difficult to see. Although her plans for what to do come graduation i 
'1 realized on a commuter campus, if you don't 
Larry L'Life, who directs a involved ii 
also Chair of the Theati 



v best friend, but on stage 1 find we have 
? know each other so well, we respond to 
Molly on stage. We've done everything 
the chorus to leading lady and 
e I leimke Library togethi 



"■["'"'-■n 



orked with him on numerous productions for the 

last four years, and we just really know how to communicate would encourage any new student to get involved and stay 

with each other to achieve the final product. I have a lot of involved during their stay at IPFW. It's the difference between 

respect for his vision." just a degree and a degree with experiences. 

When it comes to la vorite roles, it's not always the lead that Phis summer will he not be a break by any means, consid- 

attracts her eye Some of her most prized performances have eri ng Dowty 's workload. One of her planned projects is is a 

been the in the bit parts. production of "Ragtime" with the Fort Wayne Community 

"My favorite role has been The Wardrobe Woman' in the Schools. 
Civics production ot Singing in the Rain,'" she said. "She was "' was cast in the role of Mother, as sort of a "community 

this bitter la/.y old woman who hated working at the studio, and K U1 ^ 1 artist" and will be playing alongside the high schoolers 



December . 
way, you will get lost in the crowd, " she sa7d. continuing her education is essential, 
ion t get involved you could mis- out on important "Having both a Bachelor's Degree and a Master's Degree 

I don't want to regret an\ thing from these years I are essential. I want to be incredibly polished and knowledge- 
able when I enter the professional 
theatre scene. I want to have that 
extra foot forward when it comes 
time to make career decisions." 

Dowty is a bit nervous about 
that day where there is no more 
school to be had. 

"After all, I've gone to school 
since I was four. Suddenly, I have 
to grow up' and it's kind of scary. 
I'm just glad I've had college to 
prepare me for what's to come." 

When it comes to working, 
show business is really the only 
business Dowty knows. 

"I work in the costume shop 
here at IPFW. It is difficult to carry 



days a week." 

In addition to the jobs lis- 
tened above, other m m-achng gigs 
are her part-time jobs at Some 
Wear on Main, a dress shop 
town, and the adjoining Stoner's costume shop. 
They're owned by the same people, so I go where I'm 
also directed two shows at Leo High 
try to stay as involved in theatre as I 




1/0* 



0&amp;*ES 



that till out the re-! of the 



needed," she sail 
School, my alma 
can, and not just stuck waiting tables. 

Theatre mac be her first love, but that doesn't me; 
is completely free of the trivial and redundant jobs the 
are subject to. 

"I must admit, I once worked at L.S. Ayres during the hoi 






Q^DTM, 



mwm 



Starburst or Skittles? Letterman Rupert or Survivor Rupert? 

Starhurst. I like tn wrap the empty Letterman Rupert, he has no idea what 

wrapper back into their original shape he has gotten himself into 

Shrek or Finding Nemo? 

Shrek, I've never seen Nemo 

Colby or Pepperjack? The Simpsons or Family Guy? 

Colby, of course' S.mpsons. without a doubt 

Mary-kate or Ashley? 

/ like the sporty, sassy one. I buy their cheap 
makeup sometimes 



Christina or Britney? 

Christina 



Conan or Kilborne? 

Conan and his V2 hard Taurus 




May 19, 2004 



A d &amp; E 

- arts and entertainment- 



The Communicator Page 7 



Rieu brings purpose to music 



sin^in^. Ii&gt;-i&lt;n^. .Hid en-i-nibk' practice - ait 
the goal of all this [earning becomes indistinct. 
Or it entirely vanishes from sight. 

But there is ,i purpose to music -a reason 
for this work to get through the disciplines of 
music. It is to provide a pause in ordinary life, 
to enjoy the extraordinary, a chance to break 
aw.iv from c\er\d.i\ strc-- to find composure 
and rest. Music can be a taste of heaven. 

This return to music.il purpose w.is evi- 
dent by Andre Rieu and the |ohann Strauss 
Orchestra in the May 1 concert at the 
Coliseum. It was a performance to remember. 
The concert opened with the musicians 
entering the white and gold stage Roses 
topped the tiered ivhite .ind gold st.i^e panel- 
ing, lending an aura of grace that was accen- 
tuated by the musician^' costumes. The men 
wore black and white tuxes and the women 
wore jewel-hued ball gowns in a myriad of 
colors: yellow, periwinkle, green, and rose, to 
name a few. Reminiscent of the Strauss era, 
these dresses had sweepingK full skirts that 
sparkled in the lights. 

Once the musicians were settled, expec- 
tation hushed the auditorium as the audience 
waited for Andre Rieu to appear. He was 
greeted with a standing ovation as he walked 
onstage. As the audience hushed, Rieu quick- 
ly turned and raised his violin to the orchestra. 



; launched into "A Night In 
Venice", and the concert began. Piece after 
piece was played, including music from the 
"Blue Lagoon", the Straus-, Morning Papers" 
wait/, Tea for Two" and "Somewhere over 
the Kainbow Vocalists traded programs dur- 
ing the "Morning Papers" waltz, soloed in 
such pieces as "Somewhere Over the 
Rainbow" and took over playing some of the 
instalments during "Tea tor two." This piece, 
bv the way, was done as the men of the orches- 
tra completed a genteel sot I -shoe /chorus line 
in tuxes, gloves, and umbrellas. 

The entire orchestra demoi i s i ra led 
superb showmanship in their execution of the 
music; the piani-i worked without music, the 
percussionists had impeccable timing, and not 
once was a page rum anywhere \ isible from 
within the orchestra. Rieu performed entirely 



things must * 

did - after five encores. The audience gave 

repeated standing ovations as the orchestra 
played "Amazing Grace", "America the 
Stars and Stripes Forever" and 



Rockwell's work communicates 
through affection and realism 



Beautiful" 

finally, Brahm's "Lullaby." The final touch 
came as the backdrop lighting faded in 
waning full moon in a star-spangled sky. 
The concert may have come to an 
but for the audience it was * 
Wiedersehen" ('til we meet again); 
of this performance would return for 
time. This was truly music. 




mmm 



Have a hankering for seeing a print exhibition? Then you are in luck. 
Come out to Artlink at 437 East Berry Street for the 24th Annual National Print 
Exhibition. This exhibition has an opening reception on May 21 from 7 — 9 p.m. 
56 makers of original prints will have a total of 62 pieces in the exhibit. 
$2,000 in cash awards will be presented to the artists selected by Robert Lee 
Mejer. Distinguished Professor of Art from Quincy University, Quincy Illinois. 

All media of printmaking wilt have examples in the collection. Colorful 
serigraphs will hang along with charming black and white mezzotints. Sharply 
incised etchings contrast with misty lithographs of landscapes. A predomi- 
nance of landscapes is featured in this year s collection. There are whimsical 
renditions of animals (including Mickey Mouse) color woodcuts, intaglio and 
various combinations of techniques. 

Lincoln Financial Group sponsors this exhibition each year. This spon- 
sorship enables Artlink to produce a catalog which is free to all visitors. The 
catalog contains definitions of ail printmaking methods and also lists the partic- 
ipating artists and the award winners. The exhibit will run through June 30, 
2004. Many of the prints will be for sale. At the end of the exhibition the art- 
work will be shipped back to the artists who reside in 21 different states. 

Saturday, May 22 at 8:00 p.m. and Sunday, May 23 at 2:00 p.m.: Embassy 
Follies 2004 Lights on Broadway. Join the Embassy for this exciting all- 
Broadway revue celebrating the Grand Finale of its 75th Anniversary and featur- 
ing production numbers from your favorite Broadway shows. Tickets: $19.28 
(Historic Patrons Circle), $14 and $7.50 for children 7 and under. On sale now at 
the Embassy Box Office, all Ticketmaster locations, Ticketmaster.com or charge- 
by-phone 260-424-1811. 

Tuesday, May 25 at 7:30 p.m.: Fort Wayne Community Band Concert. 
Tickets: $10 for adults, $7 for students and seniors, $2 for IPFW students with 
student ID. On sale Wednesday, May 5 at 10 a.m. at the Embassy Box Office. 

Tuesday, July 20 at 7:30 p.m.: Jewel, Live In Concert. Tickets: $45.50 and 
$38. On sale Friday, May 7 at 10 am. at the Embassy Box Office, all 
Ticketmaster locations, Ticketmaster.com or charge-by-phone 260-424-1811. 

The IPFW Theatre Department will hold auditions the week before school 
begins, come Fall of 2004. Be sure to contact the theatre department for more 
information at 481-6551. 



If you are a non-profit organization and you would like to have your new 
appear in the Community Calendar, please contact Kurtis Meyers, A&amp;E Editor, i 
the Communicator, at (260)481-6584 or at www.stupaper.ipfw.edu. 



Feeling -Hungry? 

Save 10% on your food bill with your IPFW 
Student ID at The Munchie! 



• Breakfast available at the Dupont location 
• Outside dinning with fire pit at Georgetown 

Great drink spedals every day of the week!' 

live music on Wednesdays (Dupont) and Thursdays (Georgetown) 



two locations: 
Dupont 




"There has to be total c 
stated Norman Rockwell Although this was 
said in reference to his Saturday Ewninj; Post 
coyer material, it could be said ot the majority 

At the exhibit, one can see firsthand the 
communication of the artist thmuph his work 
Take for instance, his piece Spelling Bev " The 
first lithograph Rockwell produced, it pictures 
l v| students standing in a row, waiting as a 

timid speller watches the listening teacha 
Some of the students nervously twist their 
hands, others lean forward, grinning, while a 
few watch the girl as if to say "Come on, you 
"" " do it." It tells a complete story ot a small 



e.ining These pictures also record the 
&gt;t historj lake for example 'The 
• We All Live With. Hie ruler, pencils, 
ks the little girl carries remember a 
'lekidsi.iineviovershilted backpacks 
idv from the School Days" portfolio 
kind and son studying at a card table, 
at the red leather table top, the shiny 
ile chairs, and the hook propped 
he lamp Card tables nowadays are 
;r.i\ or brown. And collapsible chairs 
look like grey humps ol recycled dis- 
nut dining iwnu hairs limlly. lookal 
;t the lamp, It looks like 



affected by his culture, said 



age, grade level, or ability. 

Move on to Rockwell's illustrations from 
Mark Twain. Here, one gels the full flavor ol 
Rockwell s sense ol humor "Mien 1 Wnrn't No 
Harm In Them" catches the action just after the 
old lady has seen the garter snake and the boys 
are watching the outcome, file snake is iiiciuU- 
itively looking up from the floor as the lady 
leaps, shrieking, spoon living through the air, 
bowl falling ira/ilv as the bailer lurches over 
the side. 

Finally, take a look at "The Problem We 
All Live With " Again dealing with the issue of 
education, this puluie portrav s I he determina- 
tion of progress as the little A Irk an- American 
girl is escorted to school by four burly mar- 






Each picture illust 






Rockwell v 
Linda Dykhuizen, Pubfic Information 
Coordinator lor the RVM A. Rockwell's ability 
to "look at lite in a eery realistn way ,nul paint 
what lie saw can be BppIW ialed by artists and 

connoisseurs lodaj who knows how many 

lominon Dungs ol Rockwell's time we would 
be completely ignorant ot had Rockwell not 

Happily. Rockwell did ivcord them, and 
these details CM be seen at the Norman 
Rockwell Lithographs- exhibits on loan to the 
hurl Wayne Museum ot Art from the Powers 
collection ol t_ hency, Washington The exhibit 
is open until May Z\ The museum is open 
Luesdav through Saturday trom ten to five and 

on Sundays from noon to five. The second 

I liiirsdav of every month the museum is open 
until eight. Wednesdays are free to everyone, 
but on other days, its S3 for students, $5 for 

adults, and $10 for families. 



Have a serious interest in journalism? 

The 2004-2005 staffing of 
The Communicator takes place soon. 

Stop by Walb 215 or email us at 
stupaper@ipfw.edu and get involved. 



GETTING YOUR OWN PLACE THIS YEAR? 



GET MORE SPACE! 

If you're moving into your own new aparment or dorm this fall, you're 

probably already realizing that you have more stuff 

than you have room for. 



Let Coliseum Self Storage Help! 




Fort Wayne's Premier Storage Facility 

Featuring: 

• 24 Hour - 7 Day-A-Week Access 
• Mailbox Rental with 24-Hour Access 

• Climate Controlled Units Available 

• Digital Security (The Best In Town!) 

• Resident Manager 

• Storage Insurance Available 

• Boxes, Locks and Moving Supplies sold on site 

• Located Conveniently Near IPFW! 



Students &amp; Faculty: Save $20 Off Your Move-In! 



Coliseum Self Storage 

1121 North Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

E-mail: sales^coliseumserfstorage.corn 

Phone: (260)420-1111 

Web: http://www.col iseumselfstordge.com/ 



S 



Page 8 The Communicator 



On Campus 



May 19, 2004 



Variety of organizations available to students 



Continue h 



Page 2 



2099. 

• Fellowship of Christian Athletes; 
Courtney Nicley at 485-6523 or 
email fca@ipfw.edu. 

• Global Christian Fellowship; 
Nick Johnson at 749-7533 or email 
gcf@ipfw.edu. 

• InterVarsity Christian l-i-llowsliip: 
Amanda Callen at 436-2692 or 
email ivcf4Sipfw.edu. 

' Newman Catholic Fellowship: 
Sister Patricia Anne Murray at 481- 
6994 or email 

srpatriciaann@yahoo.COm. 

• Pagan Student Alliance: Jessica 
Martin at 493-0308 or email 
pasjpfwirvyahoo.com. 

SflciaLGreeh Organizations 

• Delta Gamma: Sara Shepherd at 
Bl8hepQaoJ.com or 

dcll.ie/'/ipfw.edu. 

• Greek Council of ll'FW: Justin 
Silvers at 385-6115 or email 
sig_ep_silv@yahoo.com. 

• National I'anliellenic Association 
Kristin Brockhaus at 485-2002 or 
email flowerul99@aol.com. 

• Phi Kappa Theta: |ason Johnson 
at 341-3842 or email 
phikiipscripfw.edu, 

• Pi Beta Phi: Deanna Price email 
at dprice.l'J 1 3@aimcast.net. 



T 


- 


' r 


_____ % 


■ 


W 4 

■ x C3l ^ Jr\ 
ft 


Lm. 


r 


L-~ 



Two members of ASL Pah!, a club for those studying or livin 
Language as a primary or secondary form of communication, 
the 2004 night of "It's A Deaf, Deaf, Deaf, World." During the 
only communication through ASL or written words. 



File photo by Mandie 



a life with American Sign 
ign with other attendees at 
tight, no speech is allowed. 



Special Interests Croups 




* Anorexia Nervosa 

Associative Disorders: 

Amber Reiff at 481- 

6544 or email 

anad@ipfw.edu. 

' Arts Group: John 

Swihart at 637-6037 or 

email 

.11'K,;[|V']'iphv,edu. 

* ASL Pah! Club: Erin 
Bower at 574-238-5532 
or email vcr52@hot- 
mail.com. 

* Association of 
Burmese Students; Zar 
Wint at 745-4905 or 



i,impti'-hopiAi.'nt&lt;jr'!'ivjhoo.com. 

• Chess Club: Luis Palacio at 385- 
5847 or email cc@ipfw.edu. 

• IPFW Circle K: Jennie 

i ''Sh.uiejinc^sx ,il |[Tinicot^"7 , lioi 

circlek@ipfw.edu. 

• Coalition for Social Justice: Tasha 
)1: Chris Sara at 704-6292 or email fmradac- 
'2-9627 or Hvists@comcast.net. 

i 1 * Dance Dance Revolutionists: Joe 
elOl.jate- or Stephanie Powell at 486-8230 or 
email chocobojoe@comcast.net. 



* IPFW Dance Club: Cher Blosser at 
482-7969 or email dance@ipfw.edu. 

* IPFW University Democrats: 
Jeremy Hudon at 750-5787 or email 
ipfwdems@yahoo.com. 

* Delta Sigma Pi: Tina Alberson at 
602-4125 or email Jsp@iptw.edu. 

' Equal Rights Education Network 
of IPFW (EREN): Jeff Sterling at 
433-0423 or email 

eren@erenipfw.com. 

* For The Future; Eugene Williams 
at 385-7210 or email 



ebwilliami2« , hotmail.com. 

" Hispanos Unidos: Joshua Oyer at 

489-7044 or email hu@iphv.edu. 

International Student 

Organization: Helga Portela at 
hportela@yahoo.com or email 
iso@ipfw.edu. 

* Leaders of Tomorrow: No infor- 
mation provided. 

* IPFW Campus Lions Club: 
Alfredo Conrreras at 894-1289 or 
email contra01@ipfw.edu. 

* Mastodons In Action (M.I. A.); 
Joshua Hunt at 585-3830 or email 
josh_hunt@hotmail.com. 

* NE Indiana Badminton 
Association: Aaron Schneider at 
435-1458 or email neibf@ipfw.edu. 

* Student Activities Board (SAB): 
Erin McConaha at 481-6590 or 
email sab@ipfw.edu. 

* Student Wellness Peer Education: 
Helen Espinola at 482-5805 or 
email sweg@ipfw.edu. 

* Students for a Free Tibet: Sara 
Conrad at 484-0879 or email 
sft@tpfw.edu. 

Students Government 

Association (IPSGA): Chris Yahne 
at 481-6588 or email 
srupres@ipfw.edu. 

* United Native American 
Students: Eva Howe at 456-4637 or 
email unas@ipfw.edu. 

* Universal Gaming Association: 
Paula Brandt at 414-6728 or email 



* Visual Production Group: 
William Elliott at 338-1933 or email 
u illiam ellkitlK'ven/on.net. 

* IPFW Waterski and Wakeboard 
Team: Andrew Hipskind at 485- 
IW45 or email wwt@ipfw.edu 



■ liangladesh Student 

Mahmuoui Bhuiya at 

483-4558 or email 



' Black Collegian 

United Native American Students tra- Caucus: Gregory 

ditionally holds pow wows for chil- f"*^' ^J 4 °; 

dren every year, and has also held the g S t ar7 Lo%_hoo!co m . 

celebrations for other reasons through * Campus Girl Scouts: 

the years of the organizations exis- Shannon Johnson at 

tence. UNAS is one of about a dozen 636-7675 or email 

groups with cubicle space in Walb cgs@ipfw.edu. 

Student Union's IPFW Organizational ' Cam A P u? ~° pe 

Suites _ Center: Ashley Quale 

** at 492-0133 or email 




Student Activities Board sponsors a myriad of events throughout the school year, includ- 
ing comedians, concerts, speeches and picnics. Above, three IPFW students relax during 
the barbeque bash held during the closing weeks of classes. 



Have a great summer. See you in August! 



GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 



We're hiring students, part-time NOW and FULL-TIME during summer and breaks! 



Home City Ice 



Flexible Hours and GREAT PAY!! 

Route Delivery Positions Available 

We Offer 10-40+ Hours/Week! 

S6.50 to $12.00+ /Hour 

sat part-time hours are available and we oiler schedute flexibility. Work around your 

school schedule with morning/afternoon and weekend hours. 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! 

Train in one facility during school, and work in another dunng summer break! 

Schedule an interview today and bring a friend! 

CALL TODAY: 1 (800) 622-6566 



Or visit us at vmw.homecityice.com to fill out an online application! 






Planning on Staying Close to 
God this year? 

So Are We! 

Join us at Good Shepherd United Mettiodlst Church. 



http://www.fwgoodshepherd.org/ 
(260)483-8816 



ch for our student welcome events! 

• 6 Worship Opportunities 
• 24 Fine Art Ministry Groups 
• Rich, Growing Adult Sunday School 
n Inner City Ministry Campus at Open Arms 




May 19, 2004 



Sports 



The Communicator Page 9 



IPFW's Athletics future relies heavily on Pope 



Athletics, academics, 
attitude set to lead 
Mastodons march 



think v 



When Mark Pope took over the posi- 
tion of Athletic Director on July 2, 2001 . he 
knew that the spot would require .i large 
amount of work. 

And three years later, all of that work 
and more is paying off day by day. 

Pope left ,i 12 year long position ,il 
Lincoln National Corporation, where he 
worked with the litigation section of 
Lincoln's Law Division and with federal 
relations to come to IPFW at the request ot 
Chancellor Michael Wartell. 

"I think it is needed to change your 
career path every so often to stay fresh and 
shi\ vibrant in your piokSMonal life," said 
Pope. "It (the Athletic Director position) 
was so different and unique [mm a nv thing 
I have done in the past." 

Pope's initial goal after obtaining the 
position was to get everyone in the depart- 
ment going in the same direction. Pope 
aimed for this by organizing a retreat. 

"Certainly the biggest issue was the 
move from Division II to Division I," said 
Pope. "I don't think anyone really under- 
stood the reasoning for it or if we could be 
successful." 

Once Pope became more comfortable 
in his spot and with his relationships with 
his staff and coaches, be strived to person- 
alize his goals for athletes and coaches. 

"One of my primary goals is to get our 
grades up to where we can use that as one 
of our points of pride," said Pope. 

The academic goal Pope set for a 3.0 
GPA is now on the brink of being accom- 
plished. During the Fall 20M3 semester, the 
overall GPA for athletes was a 2.95. 

As far as other points of emphasis, 
Pope really strives for more student partic- 
ipation in athletic events and to find some 
conference affiliation for the teams. 

"Students are becoming more and 



» part of our events," said Pope. "I 
cceeded in some respects. 
I am not satisfied with where we are right 
now. But I think we have moved the needle 
quite a bit in the right direction." 

Athletics has worked with many 

t roups, including SAB and Alumni 
elations, across campus in the last year in 
hopes to get students involved Pope hopes 
that people around campus will begin to 
recognize athletics as a partner in the 
growth of the university. 

Now, three years into the position, 
Pope has begun a daily routine that 
involves sitting down with coaches and 
staff, planning future events and usually 
with student athletes. 

Yet, those events are not the most 
important part of his day. 

"I spend at least one task everyday 
involved with trying to get us into a con- 
ference, because to me, that still remains 
the mission critical aspect of our depart- 
ment," said Pope. "I have seen my coaches 
struggle, I have seen my coaches lose 
recruits because we are not in conference, 
and to me, that is the single biggest setback 
in the three years thai I have been here." 

As to where the Mastodons are cur- 
rently on the quest for a conference, Pope 
would not say anything other than that he 
is "cautiously optimistic." 

However, talk and rumors about rela- 
tionships with the Hori/on League and the 
Mid-Continent Conference have been at the 
forefront for sometime. 

Another point of pride Pope sees with 
the department currently is with the 
recruiting process, especially with foreign 
athletes. 

"I firmly believe in the issue of diver- 
sity for the same reasons that many others 
do," said Pope. "What I need is people of 
different backgrounds and educations and 
genders and races to broaden my view of 
the world to get me thinking in different 



the many Mastodon teams. The men's vol- 
leyball team alone boasts athletes from five 
different countries. 

While Pope aims to succeed in his 




Athletic Director Mark Pope plans on helping improve many aspects of 
IPFW Athletics in the coming year including attempting to attain con- 
ference affiliation. 



selected an 

of years, fans have shown 
Football program. And on numerous occa- 
sions, Pope continuously referred to a 
"never say never" policy, holding the door 
open tor the future. 

"The minute you close your mind to a 
new idea, it really stops any opportunity 
for it to come forward," said Pope. 

However, not every aspect of the past 
years has been completely positive, List 
spring. Pope came under fire from some 
athletes for the elimination of the men's 
track program. 

"It was the right decision then and it is 
the right decision now," said Pope. "The 



mens track program was underfunded and 
it didn't have the necessary resources 
around this campus to make it better." 

Pope pointed out that despite popular 
opinion, the decision to discontinue track 
and introduce men's golf were not linked 
and instead were more part of adhering to 
Title IX as the program goes through the 
NCAA Self Study Certification Process. 

"The question is how do you respond 
to adversity, because adversity is going to 
come," said Pope. "You are going to have 
setbacks in your life and how you respond 
to that is what is going to determine your 




Athletic equality lacking 



Title IX governs the overall 
equity of treatment and opportuni- 
ty in athletics. 

It is all right there in stone in 
Title IX's application to intercolle- 
giate athletics. Yet how fair and 
equal is the treatment of sports 
here at IPFW? 

For one, it is obvious on this 
campus that men's sports are gen- 
erally given more prestige and 
time than women's sports. 
Though, there are a few excep- 

But not only are men's sports 
given somewhat preferential treat- 
ment, certain programs in the 
men's department are cared for 
more than others. 

For example, volleyball and 
basketball are given way more 
hype by the athletic department 
than any of the other men's sports. 

And yes, those sports do gai- 
ner bigger crowds, yet those have 
to be due in part to how much sup- 
port they are given at IPFW and in 



the 



Yet they never fail to feature 
David Simon or Matt Zbys/ewski. 

Don't get me wrong, Simon 
and Zbyszewski are two of our 
best male athletes. But shouldn't 
there be equal coverage for superb 
male athletes like Ian Luya on the 
soccer team or Jason Horvath on 
the baseball diamond? 

I understand from a journal- 
ism standpoint, that the JG and the 
News-Sentinel (among other 
media outlets) have to cover what 
will interest their readers. And the 
readers in general prefer more than 
anything male athletics and bas- 
ketball in general when it comes to 



At IPFW, the standards and 
practices should be a little differ- 
ent. But they aren't. 

If the women's track team 
hadn't broken a multitude of 
records this season, would they 
have gotten any recognition? I 
think not. 

If it wasn't for the Soccer 
Showcase in the early Fall, would 
soccer get more than a momentary 
glance? Not really all that likely. 

So who really has equal 
opportunities? Does any male of 
any other sport have the the kind 
of treatment that Simon has? 

For that matter, does a female 
in that same sport get the same 
kind of treatment that David 
Simon does? 

And no, I am not picking or. 
Simon, just using him as an exam- 
ple. David Simon is a nice and gen- 
uine person and doesn't really ask 
for any of the holier-than-thou sta- 
tus that people to bestow on him. 

But he still gets it. While the 
men's cross country runners or 
women's tennis players work just 
as hard, men's basketball garners a 
majority of the school's pride and 
prestige. 

It is not fair and it is not just, 
but it happens. 

Last spring, talk of Title DC 
and athletic equality ran amuck on 
campus when the men's track pro- 
gram was eliminated. But wnere 
did the equality go? 

And yes, the attention and 
hype to some sports (i.e. men's vol- 
leyball) is mostly deserved. But 
why can't every other team get 
that same level of respect? 

Maybe one day we will be 
blessed with the addition of a Title 
X in which all athletes and sports 
get fair treatment. 

Hmm... Title X, where every- 
one gets some love, not just the 
teams that an athletic department 
dictates. 



Simon Declares 

Continue froi 



for NBA Draft 

i Page, One 




ight against 



addresses the media during a 
May 18 Press Conference. 



honor this season, including a career i 
Oakland, with 33 points and 14 rebound; 

Simon's numbers have- improved each year, and 
with a solid core of returners and good lineup of 
incoming athletes, all signs have been pointing to 
another breakout season for Simon in 2004-2005. 

"We all want him to slay, but we know Dave has 
to do what is best for him. We'll be happy if he stays 
and we will be happy for him if he goes," said Iresh- 
man teammate Beau Bauer. 

Widely recognized for his strong 3.3 GPA, Simon 
does intend on completing his college school work 
soon, even if he does turn pro, though be only has two 
classes left to complete his i hemistry degree. 

While Simon has yet to speak to many experts 
and scouts, he has spoke to former IPFW Assistant 
Coach Cliff Levingston about the process. Simon feels 
comfortable speaking with the former NBA player 
since he has been through tin- experience before. 

Like most teammates, graduated senior Keion 
1 lender son, who has been Simon's teammate since 
David transferred from Loyola-Chicago, is firmly 
behind the decision. 

"If he makes it, I will be one of his biggest sup- 



the situation is really thai Dave wants to get his name 
out and position himself. He's got to do what's best 
for Dave Simon," said Noll. "If people are looking at 
him and looking that maybe he is ready, then he'll 
take a chance, then it's how it is going to be." 

Noll, in contradiction to Simon's strong stance on 
going through the process, believes that Simon will 
return for his senior season, something Simon dispels 

"In the beginning stages, we hadn't made a spe- 
cific choice," said Simon. "I think what he (Noll) was 
trying to get at is thai I have left the option open. That 
might be where the inconsistency came from." 

Simon worked to an All-Independent First Team 



porters. If he v 
next year &lt; 



iake it, 



vill be a shoe in," said 
Henderson "When a learn looks at Dave, they will see 
that his best basketball days are ahead of him." 

Simon is very thankful that his teammates 
express their happiness tor him in his quest as he con- 
siders them "kind of like a family." 

The draft takes place on June 24 at Madison 
Square Garden in New York City. 

"I came here with no expectations and once we 
got working, they pushed me to try and develop and 
become the best that I could be," said Simon. 



if' 



L 



Santiago will forego senior season 

By Staff &amp; IPFW News Services 

IPFW men's volleyball setter Dennis Santiago has informed the 
Mastodons that he will pass up his senior season in order to play profes- 
sionally in Puerto Rico. 

The native of Bayamon, Puerto Rico had been IPFW's starting setter 
for the past three seasons. 

In 2004, Santiago averaged 11.55 assists per match, and was part of a 
f team that led the MIVA in blocking Santiago put down 1.15 per game. He 

also averaged 1.78 digs per game and totaled 161 points on the year. 
4 Santiago's assist total and average led the Mastodons and placed fifth 

in the MJVA. 

Joining teammate Serdar Srkca and David Zbyszewski (both First 
team), Santiago was named to the Midwestern Intercollegiate Volleyball 
Hj Association's All-Conference Second Team, in voting conducted by coach- 
Photo Provided es at tne enc ' °' April. 



May 19, 2004 




August 22-24 

I ihIi. I niwisiiy soccer coach 

[err) Yeagley headlines another 

sua essful Soccer Showcase. 

North Carolina, Michigan, 

Michigan State among others 

competed. The women's team 

became the first IPFW soccer 

team to earn a win in the 

Showcase with a 2-0 victor) over 

Central Michigan. 



November 21 
ESPN college basketball 
analyst Dick Vitale is the 
special guest for 
Homecoming. Vitale 
speaks at a pep rally and 
before the homecoming 
game; a 71-53 loss to 
Toledo. Vitale later filed a 
report for espn.com about 
IPFW's quest for confer- 
ence affiliation. 




•Summer 2003 

Athletic Director Mark Pope, 
g with Coach Doug Noll 
lunce thai all men's and three 
len s basketball games will be 

held in a new facility: the 

Mei iaJ Coliseum. 



•September 22 
The Athletic Department offi- 
cially announces the addition c 
o i:i&gt;lt program. Both men's am 
women's teams will be fielded 
though only the men started 
this school year. 



• November 14 

The women's volleyball team picked 
up their 20th win of the season over 
Utah Valley State in the second round 
of the D-I Independent Tournament. 
The 11th straight win gave the team 
their first ever 20 win season. 



•December 20 

The men's basketball team takes 
part in the Purdue Invitational a&gt; 
Mackey Arena. The 'Dons fall to 
Purdue 80-69 on day one and 
again 63-52 to Miami (OH) 
consolation game. 



the 



The Communicator Page 1 1 




DON'T 
MISS OUT! 



SPACE IS STILL AVAILABLE BUT DDING FAST! 




the standard in student living 



HDUSING FDR IPFW 



iEEQSE 



amenities 



' Individual Housing Agreements 

• Furnished Bedroom 

• Furnished Living Room 
' Fully Equipped Kitchen 

• Dining Area with Chairs 

• High-speed Internet and Cable 
Television Service 



• Community Center 

1 Social Lounge with Big Screen 
Television 

1 24-Hour Laundry Facilities 
&gt; Computer Lab 
» Fitness Center 

• Basketball Court 



• On-site Resident Assistant 
Staff 

• On-site Management and 
Maintenance 

• Housing for IPFW Students 
including Allen County 
Residents 



IPFW Student Housing 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

Kettler Hall G98F • 2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, Indiana 46805 
www.IPFWstudenthousing.com • email: info@IPFWstudenthousing.com 

PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY AMERICAN CAMPUS COMMUNITIES 



