WEDNESDAY I Voices on campus, p. 2 I Curtain Call, p. 3 j Nev.- ^vomen■s group, p 6 i Raw Carrot, p. 4 

September 19, INSIDE: OPINIONS FEATURES CAMPUS/REGION FEATURES 

2001 I 1 I 



/lPFw\ 



The 

)I 

Indiana University — Purdue Universihf Fort Wayne 



^^^^^ M. w§'%^ www studenr ipfw.edu/-slijpaper 

COMMUNICATO 



One free copy per 
student 



Volume 3h, Issue 5 



News Briefs 

Straight No Chaser gives 
free concert Sunday 

Men's acapella group Siraighl No Chaser 
will give a free concert Sunday, Sepi. 23, 3t 2 
p.m. in Ihe Memorial Coliseum E»po 1 buildirig. 

The group has laken Ihe lU tommunily by 
slorm. Since formmg in 1996. Ihe ll-member 
group, named afrcr asongby famous jazz com- 
poser Theionious Monk, has performed more 
Ihen ■100 shows, including singing Ihe national 
anlhcm a1 Chicago While Sox, Chicago Cubs 
games, and Ihe Brickyard JOO. appearing on 
NBC and CBS television, and opening for Lou 
Rawls. 

They have recorded lour CDs, and in May 
1997, SNC finished second in the nalional finals 
for collegiate a cappella groups, held al 
Carnegie Hall in New *ork Cily. 

Spoiuorcd by Ihe lU Alumni Association, 
Straight No Chaser is bringing lUs r\ewesl tra- 
dition lo alumni around Ihe country. 

Guests are inviled to bring canned goods for 
Ihe Community Hardest Food Bank. 

For furlher mfoimalion, conlacl Dave Davis 
31 (219) 492-0631 or e-mail lo 
davis42283eaol.com. 

IPFW to host Regional 
College Fair Sept. 25 

Area students and Iheir parenis are invit- 
ed lo attend the annual Regional College 
Fair on Tuesday, Sept. 25 from 6:30-8 p.m. 
in Ihe VVnIb Sludenl Union Ballroom. 

More Ihan 50 colleges and un 



fro 



India 



and s 



)undin 



vill 



have reprcsenlalivcs available lo answer 
queslions of prospeclive students. 

The Regional College Fair is sponsored 
by Norlhrop High School and will be host- 
ed by IPFW this year. 

Three other Fort Wayne academic institu- 
tions (Ivy Tech Stale College. Taylor 
University Fori Wayne, and the University 
of Saint Francis) will serve as hosis in 
fulurc years. 

For mote information, contact Donna 
Green, director of guidance at Norlhrop 
High School, al 425-7560. 

Joanne B. Lantz Clinic to 
offer free counseling 

The Joanne B, Lantz Counselor Educalion 
Clinic provides free counseling services for 
adults, children, couples, and families 
Mondays through Thursdays in Neff Hall. 
Room 243. from 5 lo 9 p.m. 

IPFW students and the community arc 

The ciinic offers help lor individuals 
CKpcricncing personal problems, adjuslmenl 
reactions r '■ — 



^ Typical elie 



i include relationship 
rilal counseling, par- 
enting and cfiild discipline, remarriage and 
sitp — family issues, school problems, life 
adjustment problems, depression/anxiety 
disorders, stress reduction, coping with loss, 
career counseling, self-concept enhancemenl, 
lime management and asserlivcness training. 

Second year-graduate sludents under me 
supervision of IPFW staff run Ihe clinic. 

For an appoinlmenl. call 481-5479 or 481- 
5405. 



Weather 

Today ^^^^ 

Showers B^^ft 

High: 72 KJ 

Low: 57 ^^ 

Thursday ^^^ 

Showers ■ri^^fc 

High: 70 ^gfl/ 
Low: 54 

Friday 

Mostly cloudy 
High: 72 
Low: 52 

Sjui™ YihDo' Wtjllwr 

Index 

Opinions 2 

Features 3, 4, 5 

Sports 6, 7 

Campus/Region 8 



The nation mourns 

IPFW holds vigils, forum to honor terrorist victims 



Combined m 



The e' 
attend 



dall 



,t 4 ^„ 



ity la. 



icouraged It 
week sponsored ; 



.umber of vigi 

•d 5,000 victims of the attacks. 

Next Monday, Sepl. 24. Campus Ministry 
s planning a Memorial Service for the vic- 
ims in Walb Sludenl Union Ballroom from 
ioon lo 1:15 p.m. Counseling is available 
hrough a personal counselor. Appointments 
:an be made by calling 481-6S92. 

Hispanos Unidos is holding a fund relief 
'- ■ Monday through Friday from 9 

m. in the ground level of Ketller. 

from other student organizations 




IPFW will present the publi 
"September ll: The Tragedy 
Challenge" on Thursday. Sept. 20. 
in Walb Sludenl Union, room G21. 

Several IPFW faculty and. administrators 
arc featured as panelists al the forum. They 
will discuss Ihe implications of the attacks 
on Ihe World Trade Center Towers and the 
Pentagon last Tuesday and what steps 
America may lake. 

Panelists will include Van Coufoudakis, 
professor of Political Science and dean of Ihe 
School of Arts and Sciences; Bernd Fischer, a.m. lo 5 p, 
professor of History, chair of the Department Volunteers 

of Hislor and acting chair of Ihe Department arc needed lo work at Ihe table and coll 
of Philosoph;, Jim Lutz. professor of funds. Anyone interested in helping out n 
Political Science and chair of the Depailmcnl call Reyna Franklin al 481-6601 or eir 
of Polilical Science andAlan Sandstrom, pro- Tonya Ryan at ryanlm02@holmcs.ipfw.edi 
fcssor of Anthropology and coordinator of remembrance. 

IPFW remembers beloved professor 



WimPix 
Americans sing "Amazing Grace" as 
they gather around a memorial in New 
York's Union Square, Friday, Sept. 14, 
2001, a national day of prayer and 



By Heidi Saliba, Editor 

About 200 people gathered Monday in Ihe 
Williams Theatre lo" remember Les Moli, Ihe 
retired professor and chair of Visual Arts who died 
April 5, 2001. 

Father John Kuzmich, pastor of St. Vincent De 
Paul Catholic Church, led the opening prayer of 
(he memorial. 

Molz sDcnt 40 years with IPFW, and was 
described by many as elemental in its growth and 
development. "We now add t-es Motz's name lo 
Sieve Hollander's and Mike Downs' as one of Ihe 
builders of IPFW," said Chancellor Michael 
Wartell. "Our IPFW family was certainly enhanced 
when Les was here. ..we're weakened by his pass- 
ing," he conlinued. 

"He was a great resource when it came time to 
plan the Fine Arts building," said Don Katler. for- 
mer director of the iPFW Physical PlanL Kalter 
was the filth of seven speakers, each of whom 
addressed participants for several minutes. Larry 
Life, chair and artistic director of the DeparlmenI 
ol Theatre, followed Kalter and read a passage 
fnjm Shakespeare's 'Hamlef to link the liiss ol 



Motz to Ihose killed in last week's lerrorisl attacks 

"'What a piece of work i 



...How noble in 



. how like an angel, in apprehen 
how like a god.'" he leciled. 

Mali's personal qualities 
were Ihe network around which 

tcxtualizcd, Benjamin Christy, 
dean of the School of Visual and | 
Performing ArLs, said Molz con- 
tributed 10 the benefit ol others 
"Les, we learned from you, I'je 
laughed with you, and we rniss 
you. We thank you for celebr^t- 
mg with us your hfetime ol cfk'- 
b rat ion," Christy said, 

"He had a heartfelt love for 
metalsmithing as well as a heartfelt love for leach- 
ing," said Betty Fishman, executive director of 




Artlink. 



lally... 

said P , 
faculty in the Department ol 




Molz wa» the son ol Grace Leslie Dickcrson, a 
descendant of the famous Bass family of Fort 
Wayne, lie graduiiIeJ Irnm thu Cranbrook Atl 
Academy m 19nl .ir i v...i ..i. ■.. i.-.i.h mclal- 
smilhing, drawini- . I !,■ \vj!;assls- 



W.irii-li ■!■■ Mil Liiii.iiling. gentle love for 

uilrni . '■ I. ■■ '■■ I. rniriibercif' and thai he 
,ij .11 . ■■■&lt;,■" al the [ohnny 

Appl,--...: I. .:. .i. .r. ■..:,&lt; 

■ Lc^ w.)&gt;. .ilwjv-. Kind, );i'nlle and supportive - 
Ihal I think is the way he Irealcd evi'tyone and I 
think it's a wonderful legacy," Warlell said- 
Following Warlell's remarks, (he IPFW Brass 
Eruembic played Conzona per Son.ire No. 4 by G. 
Gabrieli. Brass was chosen in honor of Mot/, who 
also played' the I mm pel. 



Hepatitis B 
vaccines offered 
on campus 



W will be the hosi lo Ihe Fori 
L'/AllenCounlyDeparlmenlof Health, as 
IS Smith Kline Beecham, lo olfer students 

itis 1! shots al a significantly discounted 



paliti 


Hi 


accinalions. 


ow mandatory for 


rudfo 


IR 


nlo elementary school, was nol 




lillanccinlc 


school for the gcn- 


ntha 












man^ of ll 
vaccinaled. 


c students of this 


US arL 


not 





Pholo by Heidi Saliba. Editor 
Olympic gold medalist Rulon Gardner signed autographs and hung oul with fans- 
fans following last Tuesday's Omnibus leclure. Here, he joked around with a 
local wrestler and let her wear his gold medal. - 

Gold medalist Gardner says 
determination key to success 

By lonah Cnsmore. staff wnlor 



Any students who are sexually aclive could 
,.&gt; al risk of the disease. 

Hepatitis B, Spread though blood, bodily flu- 
is, and conlaminaled needles does not show 
vmploms in about half of Ihe people that 11 



However, these people ate still carriers. 
le other half, symptoms vary in degrees 

See Hepatitis, p. 



In 



Olympic gold medalist Rulon Gardner spoke 
for the first installment of Ihe Ominibus Lecture 
Series Tuesday, September 11. al the Walb 
Ballroom. 

The lecture "Overcoming Obstacles" largely 
consisted of how Gardner's personal experiences 
as a boy growing up on a dairy farm and 
wrestling al the age of six helped nim win the 
Olympic gold medal for wrestling In Sydney in 
2000. 

Gardner said dcterminalion and self confi- 
dence are Ihe keys to accomplishing anything in 
life. 

Gardner used a seven-step fotmub lo illus- 
trate his lecture, which consisted of "going back 
lo Ihe basics, turning a negative into a positive, 
aiming high when you are feeling low, enlisting 
the help of others in your life, training hard, tak- 
ing care of business, and nol resting on your lau- 
rels." The purpose of the formula is to rnake a 



person more confident and give a person more 
strength, Gardner said. 

"I had all the struggles. I had to go out there 
and think about myselfand all the words people 
said lo me and how they would daily tear me 
down, saying things like I have a spare tire, and 
calling me a tub otlard. 

"But instead of looking lo all the negative peo- 

Ele and the negative things people said lo me. 1 
loked to the positive things," Gardner said, 
adding that all hardships in life can make a per- 
son more successful. 

As part of the 2000 Olympic wrestling team 
Gardner defeated Alexandre Karelin, a Russian 
wrestler who had not been defeated since 1987. 

Currently Gardner is a resident athlete in 
Colorado Springs, where he is training to defend 
his gold medal in the 2004 Olympic games. 

"Riis was the first of Omnibus Lecture Scries 
lot 2001-2002. Other speakers scheduled for Ihe 
scnes this year are Cornel West, speaking Oct. 25. 
and John tJpdike. speaking Nov. 28. 




Photo by Denniez Zhie. Pholo Editor 

Matilda mural settles in 

"Matilda," by Visual Arts graduate 
Mary Liebennan-Brandl was affiived to 
the south side of the Hilliard Gates 
Sports Center by the Sehust Company a 
couple weeks ago. 



Page 2 The Communicator 



Opinions 




Voices on Campus 

The Communicator asked students on campus, 
"What do you think should be done in response to the ter- 
rorist attacks on New York and Washington, D.C.?" 

Here are some of their responses: 

'1 think that the terroriste should bo 
punished tor their crimes." 

Safia Lakh any, 
freshman 



"I think that the terrorists should be 
punished, but they should gel all the 
iiicl.s straight before they attack a cer- 
iflin country. 1 think they should be 
punL';hed, basically." 

Hunair Choddhry, 
Freshman 



"1 believe that they should find those 
responsible and lake appropriate meas- 
ures to punish them." 

Adrian Kurtz, 
freshman 



"I think, from a Christian point of view, 
I understand how everybody wants 
revenge, but J think those are the wrong 
motives lo be going after these people. 
And I think that we should punish 
Ihem for what they've done, but just lo 
go out to kill whoever, I don't think 
that's right," 






Joy Nagcl, 
freshman 



A note from the editor 



In last week's issue, a signilicJnl 
amount of what we'd had plarmed and 
ready to pnnl ivas omilted out of 
respect for the victims of recent evenfe. 
Last-minulc eflotis on Ihe part ol 
myself and a lew staff members lo 
complptety rebuild the paper yielded 
the issue which hit the stands last 
iVednesday. Due to immense lime pres- 
sures, it was not our best in technical 
tenns (or, as many have mentioned, for 
its aeslhclic qualities), but 1 am proud 
of it in the sense that we at least Iricd to 
make il more appropriate for Ihe lime. 
It would have been very easy to have 
run ivhat we had already planned, 
wrillen and laid out, but then 1 would 
Ije ashamed for ils callous disregard of 
the dead and tvounded, 

Ttus week, we arc le-runnrng the 
Carrot Top story in which Features 
Editor Dflivn Early got to meet and 
interview the celebrity comedian. The 
reason *«e an? running it again is Ihal 
due to time and space constraints last 
week, vcr&gt;' little ol^lhe article was edit- 
ed and a portion of ils middle was 
deleted in the jump from one page to 
another. Also, we &gt;«re unable to attrac- 
tively lay out photos from Ihe event, 
whioi tell a bit more of Ihe story. We 
simply could not do il justice under 
Tuesday morning's conditions. On 
pages 3 and 4 you ivill find a photo 



de. 



n edited v. 



n ol Ihe ai 



idon Schivarze's 'Curtain Call' 
column was scheduled lo run last week 
as well, bul was deleted for the 
above-mentioned reasons. Please take 
lime lo check out his work, which runs 
on the page adjacent to this one. This 
theatre column brings a lot to Ihe paper 
in terms of culture and artistic review, 
and we are appreciative ol his contri- 
butions. 

As many ol you may have noticed, 
the sports section was completely cut 
out of last week's issue. Il returns this 
week, with some of the articles we'd 
prepared for last, and a ne*v column 
iTom Sports Editor Jon Teders on how 
last week's events affected fum and the 
sports world. 

Thank you for taking the time to 
rrad this paper. As you go Ifuough tfus 
week's issue, please understand ttiat 
some lhi[\gs may not bo as timely as 
we'd planned, but we felt they were 
still unpoitant enough to print this 
week. 1 pray that if ever again 1 have lo 
—'---'-■ a paper in under eigh 

luse of ground-brcafiii _ 

id not a horrific tragedy Tike w 

eiiperienced last week. May God bles 
you all and keep you safe. 



Editorial Board Contact Us! 



Heidi Saliba, EJnor 
Nathan DichU Munasing Eduof 
Todd llamm. iVcmi Editor 
Dawn Early, FtaiuKs Editor 
Jon Teden. Sports Editor 
Mbhanna Wood, ChitJ Rtpantr 
Dennici Ztilc, Phoio Editor 
Kathy Dclagrongc, Copy Editor 
Ella Sluliman. Aditrtismg Monagtr 
Dorte RoDQldc, Publither 



Mail: TheCommuniizalor, Suilc;i 
WalbStudenlUnion.JtOIE ColiK 
Blvd.. Fon Wijfw, IN 46S05 

E-BiaiS: si u piper @ hoi mcs.ipfw.cdi 

^ox: 481-6045 

TeUphone: 

Edilor 48I-65S4 

Publisher 48l-6i8S 

Advcniling:4SI-65E3 





"TrVell, so far I'm in support of everything Bush has been doing, By 
looking at everything, 1 thiiJ; il will be very difficult to tackle, so I 
think we just need to pray about it. Pray for our government and the ' 
decisions they an; going lo make in the ne.&gt;il couple of iveeks. There's , 
not really a whole lot we can do as individuab except pray for the 
nation and help out those who were injured in the attack." 

Jeremy Rineharl, 
freshman 



"Americans need to think very deeply about &gt;vhat they want their 
childtun to grow up and c&gt;:periencc in this country. As far as I'm con- 
cerned. I'm still angry enough to say that I know if I'm ever in a situ- 
ation, for instance, in an airplane, and someone gets up in Front of me 
and they lake over that airplane. I will die before I let them reach that 






I'll die 




■'I believe that honestly, so far we have had a really good resporwe, ' 
with the country all coining together, and we're praying about it. I 
really feel, though, that we need to pray for God's guidance as well, 
and not just His mercy and His compassion on us now. 1 think we 
should continue on and pray for his guidance and ask Him what wc ' 
should do instead of, 'Oh, help us, please.' I think that if we want lo 
use Him wc should totally use Him and not just use Him as an acces- 
sory only when we need Him. But I think thai so far. President Bush 
IS handling it very well and I feel like we arc handing it very well all 
together." 

Quinn Fiechler, 
sophomore 

"I think that personally, if s a time when we really need to reach out , 
to people who are uncertain about their future and what's going to 
happen. And as Christians, lo kind of make sure that they know 
ivherc they're going to go when they die, because it's an important 
thing lo know. Govemmenl-wise, 1 think they need to get justice on 
Ihe people that did it and try lo have as few casualties, of course, as 
possible. But the president, 1 think, will make a wise decision on how 
lo gel revenge." 

janelle Kruse, 
sophomore 



A principled response to terrorism 

Five Gandhian pri?iciples 



1. We 



induct ci 



We must recognize and foster the fundamental spiritual 
ilh the aim in mind of uncovering underlying causes, pro- unity of all religions behind the less essential differences 



1 a lysis of what has happened. 



rosing viable solutions and acling on our analysis. between these faiths. 

. We must use the most soul force (satagrapha) possible and 5. We must create right relations with everyone, our family, 

Ihe least physical force necessary to create a world based on our friends, our neighbors and our enemies. 
Tnilh and Love. 

3. Given that poverty is the worst fomi of violence, wc musi 

do all in our power lo uplift the poor, to provide all human Writfcri by and reprinted ti/ilh permission from Richard Johitson, 

beings with food, shelter, clothing, work and respect, as well who is professor of German and Peace and Conflict Studies al 

as the education and socio-economic condihons Ihal foster IPFW. 
their highest potential as human beings. 



Love, the secret to making America whole 



A horrible Ihing has happened to the United States ol 
America- America, which was founded on the ideas of free- 
dom and liberty, has now been victimized because of Ihe very 
ideals upon (vhich the counlry was founded. 

As a citizen of America, I have Ihe right to choose any 
religion I want, as do you. I would hope that through the reli- 
gion each of us has chosen, whether it be Christian, Jewish. 
Buddhist, Moshm or agnosticism, we would realize the dif- 
ference between love and hate. 

Hate rips people apart, as evidenced in Ihe recent terror- 
ist attacks. 'The very book the attackers looked to for spiritual 
guidance specifically prohibited suicide and the taking of 



From the 
Heart 






belie 

II is in limes like these, whi 
that wc as Americans, no mall 
grounds, must come together : 
poured out on my counlry ca: 
Americans. 

America is a place ol diversity, and in America 
facilitate diversit)', not by hating those diffeieni from 



hate has seemed to prevail 
' what our religious back- 
love. No amount ol hale 
make me hale my fellow 



c have 



nilar- 



ilies and differences. True love binds together regardlt 
differences. It doesn't matter if we're from different ethnic 
backgrounds, social backgrounds, if we speak with different 
accents or have different colors of hair. Love looks be; 
simple differences into the inner Iwing ol 



tiu7°^ 



finds a common bond to cling to. 

Just as easily as hate can tear people apart, love can bring 
people together. In New York (his past week, people were 
coming together. Citizens lined upon Ihe street ctianlmg, "Put 
us to work! Put us to work!" 

Love knows no bounds, f think Paul said it t&gt;cst, "Love is 
very palieni and kind, never jealous or envious, never boast- 
ful or proud, never hauglity or selfish or rude. L.ovedoc5nol 
demand its own way II is not irritable or touchy, II does not 
hold grudges and will hardly even notice when others do it 
wrong. It IS never gbd about injustice, bul rejoices whenever 
truth wins out," (1 Corinthians 13:4-7) 

Hale cannot overcome love, bul love will overcome hate. 
With love. America will overcome. 



Editorial Policy 



Uruigned ediloriats arc iheapmioniOfThc Commumcalor. 
They do not necesiarily refleci the viewsof IPFW. its employees 
or its siudeni body. A column is wlcly ihc opinion of its ajthor. 

The Communicaior v.eleomes responses from its rejden. 
l^ncis 10 Ihe Editor and guest columns miisl be signed, daled and 
accompanied by a cumcnL. valid address. 

All submissions nude vis e-mail wilt be verilied by phone or 
in person Submissions via mail or e-mail wiihoui ihis information 
will no( be published. ifxcepE under ettraordinary circumslances. 
Class standing or title is sta&gt; requested. Addresses and phone num- 



bers will never be publiihed. 

Submissions muil be (ypewniien. double-spaced arid no more 
than 400 words. It is preferred thai lubmiuions be lent lo the email 
address lured (o the left ("Coniaci UsH Submiiiioni for a week's 
issue must be received pnor in 6 a.m. Monday prior to the prim 
date for timely coosider^tian. 

The editorial board of The Communicator reserves llie right Id 
edit alt iubmiiiioiu for length, grammar, siytc and clirily, l.eiten 
deemed libelous by The Conununicalor's odiiDnil board will not 
be published under any ci. 



Features 



WEai 



tEI 



s up 



IS weeJ 



Tampus Minisfry Staff Prayer Meeling noon-12 JO pm Neff 257 
Pagan Student Alliance meeKng 7:30p-10:0Dpm, VValb 222, 224 and 226 
Delta Sigma Pi Business meeting Walb 114-116 9:00pm-ll:00pm 
Black Collegian Caucus Fundraiser KTground level- Selling Food I0am-2pin 

Cam pusM nistryUni versify Religion Forum noon-l;15 pm Walb 222-226 

Campus Ministry Bible Study noon-lpm Walb 114 

Black Collegian Caucus Fundraiser KT ground level- Selling Food 10am-2pm 

Delta Sigma Pi Piz^3-Kettler ground level 10am-2pm 

Delta Gamma Anchor Slam registration Keiller Hall - ground floor 



'nited Sexualities Pride Night Kings Island (21sl and 22nd) 
InlcrVarsity Christian Fellowship group meeting 6pm-llpm Walb G21 
IPFW College Republicans meeting Walb Union 110 noon-lpm 

Cam pus Wl I m s try Leadership breakfast 9am-11am Walb Union 222-225 

Campus Ministry Gates' home 7pm-8:30pm Small Croup Building Relationships 



lelta Sigma I'i I'l edge Meeting 6pin - 8:30pm Walb Union 110 
Pi Beta Phi 4pm - 9:00pm Walb 222-226 

Drive-In Movie (SAB) 6 pm-]2:00am Walb back patio or Walb Balirt 
Delta Gamma meeting 5pm-8pm Walb 114-116 

:a m pus Ml n i s t ry Memorial Service noori-lpm Walb Ballroom 
S.C.R.E.A.M. meeting 7:30pm-10:00pm Walb 114 



lewman Catholic Group Catholic Mass n:30-2:i)0pm G21 

Delta Sigma Pi Pizsa-Kcttlcr ground level 10am-2pm 

Wednesday, Sept. 26 

ampus Ministry Staff Prayer Meeling noon-12:30pm Neff 257 

Pagan Student Alliance meeling 7:30p-10;00pm Walb 114 and 116 

Delta Sigma Pi Evening with the dean 5:30-8:30 Walb Ballroom 

Infonnation courtesy of The Office of Student Life, from their wel 
,i p fw. ed u/sluli f e/cal endars/events/5ep_eve.htm 



Equity actress Farrar takes Civic Stage 



Over 14.000 v. 






N^rgarel Ed 



docs Bearing and hor 17'^ccnlur\' Holv5oi 
of Jolin Dotuie, 

Edson aptly iised Ihe ctutncliT ol Posr 
mifrnr Bcjnng. Bcanng ^v,l■. i-onlronleJ ii 
replica ot heisel/ ?o dii- could 50.- how dor 



Curtain 
Caff 



I (all victim 
the UnilnJ SLjIcs. Vmi 

1 Edson 15 Ihe P^liticr Pnzp-ivir 
ning idnJprgatlen teacher who aulhored "W11. 
The Fort Wayne Civic Thealre is using 
Ihe show as the second medium for t&gt;oj 
office revenues Ihis season. 

"Wir is Ihe slory of renoiN-ncd 
English professor Bearing, who has 
spent mosi of her life and career study- 
ing the compleiilics of Jolui t^onne'^ 
sonncls. lV?ien Bearing is diagnosed 
with terminal cancer, she t&gt;ecomcs part 
of an eupcnmental chemotherapy pro- 
gram. She then conlcmplatcs her past 
rile and dedication to Ihe world ol aci- 
demia, using her knowledge of Donne, 
whose 17"" cenlurv works explore the 
meaning of life and dealh. rn ajj.^,,-/,,, 

Equity actress Barbara Fartat lake* -OJ/ -DraJiaOn 
Ihe stage reprising, (or Ihe third lime, Cfd-uinr^O 
Ihe role o( Bearing. Also for Ihe third OUlWUrZe 
lime, is the presence of diieclor of Tom 
Evans, who is the former director ol 
southern Indiana's Hanover College theatre pro- ^er dedication to her ivofk ivas and also how lil- 
gram for 32 years. Not orily are Evans and Farrar ,,3 ^.^i^^ ^^e placed on human companionship. 
coUeaguK, they have also been marned since p^^^, ^ ,he ,ypc of man wSo feeU tfiat 

■_u L .u . 11 J -n . &lt;-.nnn,. 1. trainmg medical studcnts IH Ihc arl ol a bcdsidc 

The show tt^ was called "Besl of 2000" by ^^^f ^ ^ ^„„ ,„^,^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^^ «.mplex,- 

thelndianapo IS Star opened Sept. 7. but It was ,(„ ^f ^^ developing relationship between 

received by a low tumout. Able to seat roughlv Bearing and Posncr were played out nicely by 

700, Ihe auditonum contained only around 200. |^^| ,,°inr r.trv &lt;Hiphp- ■■'-- - '—- ■ &gt;-■-■' 

ening started off with IZivic Thealre's 




Executive Director Philip Colglazicr and gui 
director Evans taking the stage, ColgTazier 
thanked the corporate sponsor and Evans made 
a few remarks reminding the audience Ihat 
"Film IS a medium, but theatre is extra large." 

Evans was dressed in blue jeans and open- 
collared shirt lor the opening night. However, 
this fit in with Ihe casual dress ollhe audience, 
many 0/ whom wore shorts. 

The era in which Evans and Farrar were 
trained was rellcctcd in that the use ol body 
microphones was suspended. There was a lime 
when actors were properly trained in the use of 
vocal technique so thai they could, with relative 
ease, fill a venue as large or larger than the 
Embassy Thealre with sound. Currently, tech- 
nology seems to win out over tradition, bvaruis 
one of the few directors around who under- 
stands thealre in its purest form should be per- 
formed without sound equipment. 

Farrar carried herself as a consummate pro- 
fessional, playing out Ihe tragedy of a woman 
who spent her entire life so dedicated lo books 
and knowledge Ihat she neglected lo develop a 
sense of humanity and is left lo lace the spectre 
of death somewhat incomplete In time though, 
Bearing gets a taste ol her own lesson plan when 
she is laced with Dr. ]ason Posner, who is a fel- 
low al the university where Bearing is undergo- 
ing trealmonl. Posncr holds the same fiendish 



local actor Greg Sliclwr. who was asked It 
the role a week bclore opening nighl. 

Farrar was onstage for Ihe entire run of Ihc 
show, relating lo Ihc audience various phases in 
her life as she went through both chemotherapy 
Ireatments and their side effecLs. It wouldn I 
seem possible that parts ol a show about a 
woman's battle with cancer would hold Ihe pos- 
sibility for laughs. "Ml" proved to be fufl ol 
itself when Farrar used excellent timing and 
delivery to get occasional laugtis al the expense 
of the medical establishment. 

The rest of the cast, composed of Fort 
Wayne theatre regulars, carried themselves very 
nicely. No entrances seemed lo be delayed, there 
^verc no spaces between lines and Ihe set was 
designed pragmatically lo be cverylhing Irom a 
classroom lo a hospital room or a living room to 

The show was thought-provoking and 
intense. Us elfects were enhanced with the sus- 
pension of an intermission so as not lo interrupt 
the flow of the performance. 

As poweriul and thought- provoking as 
"Wit" was, il was no Rogers and Hammcrslein 
musical. "Wit" was undoubtedly a challenging 
education in both life and death. 



Want to be part of a new traditionP 

Are you interested in buying an IPFW 
yearbookP 






time Itat-'d 
production 

lENCE NECESS/(f{y^ 
ill Trainjg^ 

student organizers also need an idea of how many people 
would likely Duy a tiooh if it Is produced. 

rieaseniloulUieformlielowanddrapitoninWalbllni.ZISif 
you are Interested In buying a book or working on the staff. 



■ NAME: 

I PHONE:_ 
I Ennall; 



D 



yeaituok priced atxiul S3D. I ui 
this is not a coinmrtirent. ji 
enoresston ol interest 



itaH. I am interested In: 

_ iivriling _layoul &amp; design 



*?* la T&gt;iE COUIJUNPCJrOH Q 4V 



IPFW 



_^ Campus 
X Calendar 



for Sept. 20-30, 2001 



20 University Religloiis Forum: 

'Coping with Post-Aboflion 
Trauma,' WU ^22, noon-1:l5 p.m. 
Light lunch available: donations 
accepted. For informaiion, call 6993. 
Invitation to review the Strategic 
Plan Draft, KT M6. 3-4:15 p.m.; for 
information, call 6795. 
Archaeological Investigations in 
celebration of Archaeology Week 
2001, Fox Island; continues through 
Sept. 22. for information, call 61 94. 



Hispanic Awareness Month Video Series. 

For information, call 6608. 

21 flroffen Silence: Rigoberta MenchO, 

The Fort iblue room), noon. 
28 Centfj/&gt;1mer(caClose-L'p.WU ll-l, 



22 Praxis (Pre-professtonal Assessment 
for Beginning Teachers), CM, 
7:30 a.m. For information, call 6600. 

23 Symphonic Wind Eniemble, Reed 

Thomas, diieaor. NF Recital Hall. 

2:30 p.m. Admission for IPFW 

students with 10. free: adults, 54; 

senior citizens, S3; other students, 

SI. For information, call 671 4, 

25 AAUW-IPFW Brook Group, TheRed 
Tent by Anita Diamant, KT 101, 
noon. Guests and brown-bag 
lunches welcome. For information, 
call 6833. 

Honors Program: National 
Collegiate Honors Council Satellite 
Seminar, lfTG20. 6:30-8 p.m. For 
information, call 6924. 



25 Women's soccer vs. Tii-State 
University, GC, 6:30 p.m. 

26 SAB-sponsored Muttons 
Inflatable, WU Mali, 10 a.m.; for 
information, call 6609. 
Career assessment group 
Interpretation, KT G41. 5:30 p.m.; 
for information, call 6600, 

Men's soccer vs. DePaul, GC, 7 p.m. 

27 Blood Health Profile Plus More 

(12-hourfast required), KTIOS, 
7-10 a.m; for information, call 6647. 

28 Theatre production. The Rivals, 
WT, 8 p.m.; also Sept. 29, Oct. 4, S, 

and 6. For information, call the box 
office, 6S5 5. 

29 American Lung Association Walk, 

GC, 9:30 a.m.; for information, call 
6647 or e-mail tillapau. 
United Sexualities' trip to James 
Dean Festival. Fairmount, noon 
departure; for information, call 
6609. 

Presentation on the Tahlrlh 
Justice Center (provides legal 
services to immigrant and refugee 
women), Botanical Conservatory. 
1 p.m.; free and everyone is invited. 
For information, call the Zonta Club 
of Fort Wayne. 219-1 86-6002- 
Women's Softball vs. Northern 
Kentucky, GC 2 p.m. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Page 4 The Co 




Features 



and zany 



Personal interview and show review 

By Dawn Eafly. Features Editor 



"Thai's 0(11- of thf doivnsiJcs lo 
being 3 Iravcling comedian, because 
It's hard lo keep a girlfriend and hard 
lo keep a pel," he said. 

The 33-ycar-old bachelor says he 
would cvcnhiallv like lo setllc down, 
gel married and have a family. There 
will be a Mrs. Top hapcrully some- 
day," he said. Righl now Top jusl 






boring," was 



kind ai tike .&gt;iht 
and tell wilh liquor," is what 
Carrol Top. al:a Scoll Thompson, said 
r aboui his show. He may nave described 

r bfKt hfm&lt;;plf hri-r.-iiK^ Ihi'^ i 



*-' Cenlered around a 
comedian performed a 



Carrol Top, who is eurranlly on his "Lord o( 
the Props" lour, was able lo rapidly pull objects 
from Ihc more than Icn trunks that lined the stage 
in rapid succession. Things just kept coming; his 
;grandmDlhoi's bra, Britlany Spears' breasts, 
Imobilc home sand caslles, a redneck cell phone. 
.'Gary Gondii's briefcase (with a shovel slicking out 
lOie side), Whitney Houston's bong, a redneck blow 
■ dn'er, the Bush daughlcr's (lask made Irom a 
J^nuol book, Venus Williams' beaded tennis racket, 
j^nd many, many more. 

•( "My sho*v is differeni than whal everybody 
"else is doing," Top said. There is no doubt that he 
gels an 'A' tor originality. 






igcshirl, withapair of 
iiunji neon camouflage panls. The ensemble was 
completed with a pair of clunky shoes Ihal would 

All of Ihc props provided an element of opti- 
cal stimulation that is narmally abseni in otner 
comedy roulines. The show moved so quickly it 
was impossible to get bored, much less detect 
a pallem or theme. Jumping from Michael Jackson, 
lo rednecks, to airport nightmares, to Nascar, to 
politics and back lo rednecks held Ihe audience's 
allenlion and kepi Ihe show moving. 



dales and does 

because he works so much. 

Top, who got his start at open 
mic nighl while at college at Florida 
Atlantic University, said it takes a lol 
o( hard work and lock lo become suc- 
cessful. He feels very fortunale Ihal 
he broke through when he did. 

He said that being in the righl 

Elace at the right time to get &gt;oiir 
reak is important, "l believe in tli:!i 
because I have a lot of friends whuari' 
funnier than me and haven't gol .i 
break yel." he said. 



Prior t 





3 As for preparing (or his highly sponta- 
3 ncous shows, he said that he docs not do a lol 

t mentally. He is careful not to over-prepare. 
"I want a lot ai it lo be off Ihe cuff; yet I 
want to be kind of prepared," he 
J said. He lamiliaiiies himself wilh local 
P facts, such as the construction on Ihe 
G Coliseum, and makes notes about current 
y events. He says his whole day is geared 
towards that night's sho^v. 

"I have an outline... and then 1 ad lib 
around il," he said. This is what allows for spon- 
taneity and variety in each show. 

1 change it each night." Top said about his 
show. The shows are never the same, but he said 
Ihal this is importani lo keeping his show fresh and 
currenl. "It's almost like you have to reinvent your- 
self, to a certain degree, all Ihe time. You have lo 
keep up with the current stuff that's going on," he 



It AT&amp;T CI 

^ ercials, Carnal Top was seen .., - „, , — r — ;; — ^—= t^ = 

M movies such as 'Dennis Ihe Pholo by Craig Berryman. Guesl Photographer 

-H Menace Strikes Again" and head- Features Editor Dawn Early stands next lo one of the 

y {TJif ■" iSli''JT^h°'''i'''''i!''",'*',4' funniest celebrities of all lime. After the inlcwiew, 
M both in 1998. He has also hoslcd ..,,..,, 

3 his oivnshow. "Carrol Tops AM she had the privilege of gelling an autograph, as well 
Mayhem." on cable's Cartoon as having her pholo taken with Carrot Top. 

Network. He has also made numer- 
ous television appearances, including 

"The Tonight Show wilh Jay Lcno," "Politically '^■* American Comedy Award for Best Sland-up 
Incorrect with Bill Maher" and "Regis and Kathy Comic and Ihe 1995 American Comedy Award for 
t-ec," jusl to name a few. Comic of Ihe Year 

Top said that the locus in Ihe cnlerlainmenl 
industry is always on the next project. "I think fop considers people like Jonattun Winters, 

everj'body, artisls, always want lo do more, 1 don't Robin Williams and Gary ShandUng lo be his major 
think anyone is evercontent." he said. However, he comedy influences. He said George Carlin, whom 
does add that he Lscontcnl wilh his current career, ^*^ commonly refers to as "The Master," is his 

"I'm content with where I am, .I'm prelly biggesl influence and all-time favorite hero, 
amazed thai I've gollen this far because 1 never 
thoughl I could," he said. Although his act focused mainly on props, he 

Top's resume includes awards such as Ihe did manage topoke fun at variauscelebritiesalong 



&gt;aid. 



n like a 



orkaholic. 



ally love it," 
He said Ihal is whal it takes to gel lo this level. 
Then the work revolves around maintaining thai 
status. "You've gol to put on a good show every 
time you come, .so they'll appreciate coming 
back." Top said. 

For tun. Tod enjoys aclivitios such as surfing, 
jet skiing, snowboarding and all sports, especially 
football, swimming, soccer and boxing. 

Tlie performance was saturated wilh lights, 
lasers, sound effects, music and video effects. It 
seemed lo parallel an exlravagant tock show and 
there ivas never a dull moment. Even before the 
show began, the audience was entertained by a 

"1 didn't want them lo look at the curtain and 
the microphone for an hour, 1 wanted to give them 
something prior to me coming," Top said. He said 
that he tnes to make sure the audience gets their 



worlh. 



,■ char 



. He 1 



; Ihe 



Pholo by Dawn Early. Features Editor 
Top relums his toy after Ihe security offi- 
cer allowed him to try out the handcuffs. 
Sadly, he gives them up. 



Cross, The Ronald 
McDonald House and Ihe SPCA as some of his 
lavoriles. 

Top, who is originally from Cocoa Beach, Ra.. 
curienlly has two homes. One is located in 
California and one is in Orlando. Between travel- 
ing from home to home and touring around JIM 
days a year, he claims to have enough frequent 
dyer miles to paint the planes orange. However, 
the animal lover admits that there are some down- 
falls lo being on the road all Ihe lime. 




Photo by Dawn Early, Features Editor 
Top peeks through the curtains as if he has something lo hide. During the show 
and interview, he had no problems coming oul of his shell. 



Student seats are available to 

serve on 

The Board of Directors of 

The Communicator. 



If interested, please call 

481-6585 for information 

regarding membership 

on the board. 




Our unx|i;« W,IR 


Ml 


SE CONCEM 


pin irw &gt;nir«&gt; u 


cklr 


orowpotmi 


Mrr,. nh,M «, (0 


11.0 


OOcnaoSS* 




»,&gt; 


•Mone-at. 


Mwm»,r™j« 


m.. 


r^M-MM 


™«,wuw™t. 


■err 


r&gt;T«&gt;«.»r. 


•r.«cu»&lt;u«Fi 


RU 


»«vw 



Liurg Room; 
Fuions/Day Be 



Presenting dorm fitmiture that leaves you mon^ for tuition. 




Features 



Namr&lt; such a* Bill (. Imlon, Ceoige Bush, Mirhjel 
I^tlilson, Gary Condil, Hjnion, Ro*ie O'Donnell 
and Bnluny ^pcdr», all nude Ihc oil. 



-H Wilh.i father who worked (or NASA and a 
2, btolher who is a profMtional pilot. Top said, 
I "I'm adopted. 1 think. I'm the black sheep ot 
a lhc(amll&gt;'-"Hesaidlh.ilhcdo(.-shaveanintcr- 
y Piling, CTleclif family thai is prctly close. He 
a acknuw ledges that his family's Thanksgiving 
■-" dinners are lusl like anyone else's, "We meel, 
we eal and you can't wall lo gel the hell out of 

He undoubtedly loves his family, but he says 
Ihat it docj not mean he has to hang out with them 
all day. "I think they really like what 1 do. .every- 
body^ a big Ian," Top said about his family. 

Top made his p.itenis proud when he gradu- 
ated from college with a degree m marketing. He 
said thai he wanted lo go lo college. He s.tid that iF 
you look Ihrou^ Ihc snow you can see the cleve. 



ind thai hTs performance takes thought. 
Jlohavelh - ■ 
s.iy I did it." He said that 



wanled lo have thai degree. I iiwl wanied tci 

iwhei^t;l.ldhi.'hJSthjl 
■ling b.itkniound bccou-v il i^ ishjl hi', 'hmv 




is all a)&gt;out. 

"I love marketing. I had a logobelore I had on 
act." he said. Top deigned hts own shadow logo 
and put It on t-shirts and hats His entire career. 
including the website and the merchandise, 
revolves around his degree in a way he ne\'er 
thought possible 

His act did incorporate some real life mci- 
denls One sencs eiplaiocd how he gol pulled over 
for boating and consuming alcohol simullaneously. 
When asked if this really happened, he admilted 
(hat il had. He said. They let us go, but they kind 
of yelled at us." 

Top says thai he's never been in trouble with 
Ihc law. Even as a kid, Top admits lobemg the class 
clown, but never gelling in trouble. "In school I 
was alwa&gt;'s the class clown but E never got sent lo 
the dean's office because 1 was a dean's aid." He 
said he knew how to work the system from the 
very beginning. 

Top seems to have a liking lor dnnks such as 
Cnawn Royal and coffee. This may explain the 
amount of energy he displays while on stage. He 
claims to sleep rarely and appears to be over-caf- 
fcinated often. 

IVhen asked his favorile food, without hesita- 
tion he replied. "Crown Royal." But when forced to 
pick a Milid, he said thai thin and crispy 
really does it (or him. 

5, I've 

Top says that because of his recent 
ATiiT commercials some people wonder 
il he's still doing stand-up. He has no 
plans of quilting any time soon. 



tVVhen it comes lo music. Top cred- 
its his favorites as being bands like 
, Pmk Royd, The Rolling Sloncs, The 
-H Grateful Dead, ABBA, Phish. Pearl 

2 Jam and even classic Ellon John. 

y The grand finale to his show was 

3 the opening of the rock 'n' roll trunk 
and Top's own rock star qualities 

were able lo snine inrougn. nt rapioly 
impersonated star after star, while clips 
o( their songs played. He went from 
Melallica lo Macy Gray in a matter of sec- 
onds. It was a spectacular, confetti-filled 
conclusion lo an amai^ing performance. 

Most importantly, he said Ihat he 
tries lo enjoy wlial he is doing. While on 
stage he tries lo take it all in and enjoy the 
moment because he says each show only 
happens once. 



"1 trj' lo lake it all in because you 
inly do this once. ..it's amazing, I try lo 
I enjoy the momcni. the scene." He said he 
" s to enjoy what he has now, rather 
n focusing on the future. 
^ , PM" b, D,«„ Ea* Feature Ediu, hi, .„!,.„,.„ „,.,.„„„ii„p„„ 

A man who has never been tn trouble wilh Ihe law oilers personal, lour and merchandise 
is shocked as he is hassled and cuffed by security. iniormaliDn, as well as an archive o( 
In this mock pose, Ihe look on his face says if all. P ° °^' 




gomca 




iiffiBi2inoiiilis ^ 
^T4»siiernioiiili 



^Oiifciuiies enulpmeirt) 
and 



^^^ 

-3^^^^ 



[jStMOK modem" 
Nobus/slgrals 

•-^^10 MB of Web si&gt;«» "■^'' 
FrrtteiWcoll&lt;elp,24-hoors 

Pl.ic evervthir^yoo ^"^ " 




Photo by Dawn Early, Features Editor 
: Carrot Top, able lo find props wherever he goes. He was successfully 
able lo "swindle" these handcuffs away from the security officer so he could pose 
with Ihem. 



Qut'cK carrot facts... 
Hometown: Cocoa Beach, Fla 
Boxers or briefs? "swing low, sweet chariot" 
Height; 5'M", 6' with hair and 6'3" in heels 
Weight: l45 lbs, ("That means if I was made entirely of boneless, 

sfsinless chicken breast, I'd be worth over $375!") 
Favorite movie "Arthur" 
Tattoo small carrot on his ankle 



SUBTERRANEAN 



J^- 



4526 PmMll AVE. 

GRAND OPENING ^l 
Friday Sept. 21 si? 





Ml Ml CLINTON;} 

from 
NORTH 

f- CREST, 
next to 
BROAD 4 



rt( 



Select!^ bf&lt;Music on CD &amp; Vinyl J 
_70s, 80ir&amp; 90s RockJItles 
' DJ Vinyl-D&amp;B, Trance, Techho/^use i 
* -^.World, Reggae, Ska^^ ■ 

SpediaJ Music Orders Handled by a 
KNOWLEDqEABLE STAFF! .; 
J^st T-Shirt Selection, in towjil 
Body Jewelry, Posters &amp; Magazines 

We watit your USED CiDs! f 

*..- mpRicEsjjipi .^ m 



i 



Page 6 The Coir 



Your guiding light tiirough the 2002 NFL 
season 



Sports 

Wake up and smell reality 



By Jon Teden, Sports Editor 



By Jon Tillers. Sports Editor 



way. He rode the bencJi in Green 
Bay for a few seasons before gel- 
ting his shot in New Orleans. 



lis 



of Ihc Natioi 



Foolball League. LasI ycai 
led off wondering if auarlcr- 
back Trent DiKcr could lead 
tlic Baltimore Ravens lo a 
Super Bowl Championship. I 
thought it was inconceivaW, 
but apparently there is a god 
and he is a Ravens fan. 

So what do wc have to 
look forward lo Ihis year'' 
Allow me lo help out your 
lo^l. litlle football soul and Icll 
you, that's right, tell you, who 
will win the divisions, as wel) 
as Ihc Super Bowl this year. 

Let's start in the NFC 
East. LasI year, it was the 
Giants, but don'l look for a 
repeal of that. I view this team 
as the old Atlanta Falcons, one 
season wonders. No, Ihc team 
to bcal in the East is Ihc 
Philadelphia Eagles. With 
Dona van McNabb at quarter- 
back, this should bo the year 
Ihe Eagles break through and 
gel that NFC East title. 

In Ihc NFC Central, look 




what you're thinking. How can I 

SI against the Raver»s? Simple, 
cy're not Ihat good. "The 
Ravens have no run- 
ning game and Elvis 
Crbac is not that great a 
QB. The Jaguars have 
starters who are )usl as 
good as anyone in the 
league, if Ihey can just 
stay healthy. 

Tlie AFC West is 



Ihc 



. San Di 



Diego i 
ived.&amp;attl 



Will be belter with a 
solid starting QB in 
Mall Hasslebcck- 

Oakland and 
Dtmcr both look fan- 
tastic, but I'm going 
with the Kansas City 
Chiefs. In my opinion. 
Ihey have the best QB 



I Ihc div 



vith 



t look impressive in Ihcir 



Photo courtesy of www.colts.com 
oj:icn7ng wm^^, but give Brld Payton Manning gets ready lo fire a 
Iohnson_ some time and he pass down field against the Kansas 



a team that can give Tampa 



land he has a solid 
Ahman Green to help carry thi 
load. This di ' 
bailie of the ba&lt; 



lelp carry the 
should be a 



ays, 
the NFC West, 1 personal- 
ly like the Saints. In my opinion, _ _ 
ifjy have the brightest young defense, but they 
siSi in the league in Aaron enough, 
Bmoks. Brooks cot lo be a start- In the AFC Central. I'm 
inj QB in this league Ihe hard going iwilh Jacksonville. I knoiv 



ipotis mai\handlcd the 
Jets in week one, I believe that 
their defense is good enough lo 
win that division. Rememl&gt;cr. Ihe 
Rams won the Super Bowl two 
years ago without a great 




Mondays &amp; Wednesdays 

$JizzEe At CHIJi'S®! 



Faji^ia *Ri^'a Mondays 

We do Mondays like no 

place eXee.. Enjoy a 

double order of faJl'J'as 

(enough for ivio) for jus't til! 

And a 10 oz. mug of 

Top Shelf Margarita 

IS only (2* 

Baby Back 'N Brew WeclnescJay 



"J want my Baby Back." 

Enjoy a full rack of Chihs' 

famous double basfed. flame 

grillecj Baby Back Ribs wtfh 

cinnamon apples and homesj'yie 

fries for jus-i *9.99 and a 10 oz. 

domesfic draff for jusf tl.OO.** 



chilik 

CG R I LL^^&amp; BAR) 



Fori Wayne 

317 £ Coliseum 

219-471-2979 





Mv sporls section was cul 
jl of last week's paper. Thai is 
-nelhing 




To )usl look 11 
Ihe paper an&lt; 

thought would genuinely make 
mc angry, ycl I wasn'l. The 
sports section wasculoul due lo 
something Ihat was so much 
larger than sports: it was some- 
thing you only have nightmares 
about. Yet America was living it. 
The section was cul out. and 
nghtfully so, to give Ihe proper 
coverage lo Ihe terrorist attacks 



on the United Slates. 

Like most of you. I woke up 

that morning without a care in 

Ihe world- Sure I thought my life 

could be better and T thought I 

had problems, but lor the most 

'art thei? were no real issues. 

stumbled inio work around 

W a.m.. got my collee, sat 

)\^Ti at my desk and began 

hat 1 thought would be a 

■ry profitable day. Around 

30 a.m, news broke Ihat 

lildings in New York and 
Washington, D.C, Shortly 
thereafter, word got out thai a 

flane had crashed in 
cnnsylvania and thai Ihe 
World Trade Center T\vin 
Towers wen; collapsing. 

This just didn't seem like il 
could be possible. Whal kmd ol 
person would kill thousands of 
innocent lives just to appease his 
stance on a particular subject? 
Only a mad man 

So was 1 upset that my sec- 
tion was cul? No Do I think it 



was Ihe nght thing to do? 
Absolutely, because sports 
seemed so mediocrv and mean- 
ingless in comparison lo whal 
was going on m our country- 
Last week I thought that the 
NFL should dcrinile^' play the 
games, that it ivould be grv-al for 
America. 1 thought that sports 
would be gexxl for the fabnc of 
society and would help lo 
restore some semblance ol our 
normal daily lives. Sports is 
something Ihat most people 
rally around. 

Then I realised thai I was 
only being selfish and that il 
wouldn't be right for the players 
to be forced lo play. The world of 
sports will continue this week 
and for Ihe rest of my life, and I 
will continue to watch intently. 
However, when 1 think back on 
Ihc past week's events, 1 will not 
remember that no sports wen- 
played; I will only remember Ihe 
tragedy that struck American 



e his opporlu- 

Here are a few 
■ loi'per teams to watch 

1 ) San Diego: This 
fculd be a grcal year 
lor the Bolts as they 
dlitmpi to go from 
worsltolir^tinlheAFC 
West. Now Ihat thev 
have gotten rid of reel- 
machine Ryan Leaf, 
they could make the 
playoffs. 



Sood young QB in Jeff Garcia. If 
leir defense improves, Ihey 
could be in the playoffs. 

3) Cincinnati Bengals; Hey, stop 
laughing. The Bengals actually 
may have a QB Ihat can throtv 
the balH If lohn Kitna can do 
enough just to keep defenses 
honest, Corey Dillion could 
make them pay. 




Adult Children of Seriously Mentally la 
Mothers 



viaarcli atudy uDoul lacton t^at Itad lo 
ult cMldrgn of toilouiiy mantilly HI 
St Iho allgiblllty crItDill. and rotum ill ol 



Fer more [nfomvitiofl, conloer Ihc rciesrchtp; 

JlthJcin O'COuwII by phon&lt; at 219-431-5795 or by 

EMall: Trudyeikyinct.net 



1984 Ford Maroon 

Crown Victoria 

$800 or best offer. 

Please call: 

219-347-464B 



- mmn Kim hot 

~o« •ap« iff aron 

ddvwpexsa In vh» 
CoitfinanlodSopV 



mmm 




i""'"«i" 


"""i"™"i 




Sports 



Let the games begin! 



By Adam Spielh, SlafI Writer 

Ameriiran skies and 
(liuncial markcU arc roaring 
again. The workplace; are 






Out 



(avorilc silcoms arc being 
aired al Iheir usual lime «Jols. 
Alter Tuesday's alldcks, has 
America's (abric finally been 
rcsewn? 



NFL. MLB and NCAA cancelled games ir 
our recent national Iragedy, There, ol course, n 
been some dcbali' over whether Ihcse cancellatio 
were the necessary and appropriate actions to lal 




It's been moie than a week since the attacks and 
Amenca has had time to think. lo pray, lo investi- 
gate and lo begin to recover. Bui the question still 
remains: Should this last week have included our 
usually relentless continuation ol one ol our most 
coveteil of American Institutions? 

I answer j^es and no to this question. First of 
all, it would have been nice to see the games and 
allow them lo psychologically ease America's sad- 
ness. II would nave been an opportunity lo congre- 
gate together as Americans and displav our patri- 
otic fervor and pnDve lo those who did Qiis that our 
spirit could not be attacked. I believe the games 
would have created some positive edecls within 

But with a stronger argument. I answer no to 
this question. Although the effecls may have been 
beneficial, the cancellations were ultimately the 
right decision- Historically, political. 



natural disasters have halted American sports. This 
is largclvduelolhe^ccunty ol players and sp«t3- 
lors and tor the remembrance of tKe victims. 

Alter the presidential assa.&gt;isination ol JFK in 
1963, the NFL refused lo cancel its games. This was 
the most regretted decision the bte commissioner 
ever made. The League has received criticism 
since. The NFL and olner major sports governing 
bodies made sure they would not make the same 
mis lake again- 

Thai seemed to be the best decision. T&gt;ie air- 
porLs were not completely secure. Many believed 
thai a massive congregation of people would have 
led them vulnerable for another attack. The players 
themselves would have found it difficult to con- 
cenlrate. leaving the pos,sibility (or injury likely. It 
was a lime for remembrance and mourning. It was 
not a time for celebrating school or civic rivalries, 
but ralher a lime lo celebrate national pride and 



continuity And rmally. many ol the Jthletes would 
have simply refused lo play anyway They gladly 
would have sacrificed a week's woilh oi salary [a 
coruiderable amount (or them) (or the recupera- 
tion of America. 

So on Monday. Sept. I7,lhcfitul thread began 
to be woven. Major League Baseball resumed its 

flay. Our National Pastime began on the same day 
ind in the same way) as Wall Street 
Apprehension and tensions let in early, but even- 
luallv the bats were swmging. And this weekend, 
we'll once again be able to enjoy the hard hlls and 
long bombs (no pun intended) of the gridiron 
game. This will be our week lo wear our colon, 
wave our (lags, sing our anthems, mourn our loss- 
es and celebrate our competitive spirit LET THE 
GAMES BEGIN! 



World Cup 2002, does America care? 



By Adam Spielh. Slall Wriler 

Well, i( you read my last col- 
umn. 1 was fairly excited to see 
the Cubs possibly qualKy (or the 
N.L, Wildcard spol. Since the 
article has been published, the 
Cubs have lost a dismal four 
straight. So maybe I was wrong 
about this being the Cubs' year. 

Similarly, I was equally 
etcitcd about the men's U.S. 
World Cup Soccer Team qualify- 
ing for the 2002 World Cup in 
Japan/Soulh Korea. Could this 
be Iheir time lo place in Ihe top of 
Ihe (inab? Like the Cubs. Iney 
looked good early. With strong 
showings and a lead in points in 
the CONCACAF Region 
(Confederation of North and 
Central American Association 
Football], the Americans led in 
points midway through qualify- 
ing. That was about two months 
ago. Since then they have lost 
three straight lo Mexico, 
Honduras andCosta Rica. 

So maybe I'm jusi as wrong 
about the Americans qualifying 
for the finals as 1 am Ihe Cubs. 
The U-S. has now fallen lo a dis- 
appointing tie for third place 
. wilh Mexico, Actually, Mexico is 
ahead due lo goal differential. 
Only Ihe lop three teams in 



CONCACAF Will qualify for the 
finals in Japan /South Korea. The 
US. now has to win both of their 
two remaining matches lo have 
any hopes of qualifying. 

However, most Americai\s 
don't care or even have any 
knowledge of this. So why am I 
wasting your time writing about 
soccer? We are a worldly univer- 
sity, so let us look at Ihe worldly 
implications of the World Cup, 

Costa Rica qualified with \9 

foinls by defeating the United 
fates 2-0 on Sept 5, Honduras, 
now with 14 points, also should 

f'or these nations, the 
opporlunily to compete in the 
Cup is more than just a chance lo 
demor^slratc their soccer skills lo 
the world. It is a chance to con- 
firm their place in international 
respectability. It becomes a cele- 
bration of the people, the culture 
and Ihe pride of those whose 
social, political and economic 
statuses are regarded as Third 
World, 

Perhaps this is Ihe n;ason 
why Americans don't consider 
our national dignity when we 
compete in Ihe World's 
Tournament. ThU is the same 
when looking a I the Olympics, 
Take Ihis comparison for exam- 



ple. As an American, how did 
you (eel when we won the gold 
in basketball m 1992? Now, how 
did you feel when we won the 
gold in hockey in 19B0 (for those 
of you who wore old enough, of 
course)? 

The emotions were much 
greater in '80 than in ■92. It was 
because our national pride was 
al stake. We were competing 
with our greatest political rival, 
the Soviet Union, Thai victory 
was more than just a win on Ihe 

It'sthe same for these small- 
er and poorer nations, whose 
only chance at international 
dominance against their rivals 
can come on the soccer pitch. For 
than, a V\torld Cup Qiampionship 
can bring a depressed nation into 
social prosperity. For example, 
afler Argentina won the Cup in 
1936, their national economy 
increased drastically. 

So what is my point exactly? 
Well, until we as Americans feel 
our global competence threat- 
ened, we may never pride our- 
selves in a World Cup vidory. 
For now, we'll leave that to the 
Italians and Brazilians, 



Volleydons ground Redhawks 



By (on Tcders. Sports Editt 



Mij 



ball 

Universi , 

Redhawks in three 

last Tuesday night 21-3o. 30- 

27, 30-24, 3()-28, 

Afler a tough start in the 
first game, the Dons bounced 
back, winning the next three 

The Dons were led by 
senior transfer Chrissy Miller 
wilh 20 kills while Deanna 
Brown also added 17 kills, 
On the defensive end. IPFW 
was led by freshman Mellisa 
Meinharl with 16 digs. 
Freshman Janelle Pollard had 
a great all-around game con- 
tributing with 17 kills and 15 
digs. 

ThU is a young IPFW 
team who enjoys plajTng at 
home. Against Miami they 
played inspired volleyball, 
especially alter dropping their 
first game by nine. 
Unfortunalely, the same could 




P/jofo by Jon Teders. Sports Editor 
IPFW players get ready for Iheir match. 



; crowd. The 
■e «cre great, 
much of the 



T/'L 



because not only has Ihis team ' 
asked for your support, but li 
more importantly, Ihey havo.f' 



PLEASE RECYCLE 
THIS NEWSPAPER. 



Blue bins are located in every building. 




Campus/Region 



Campus Wire 

lU campuses close for 
remembrance 



PresidenI George W. Bush's proclamalion eslab- 
lishitig Sepr. 14 as a day of prayer and remem- 
brance (or the vicrims of Ihe lerrorisl allacks. 

Universily employees and students were 
encouraged Id use this lime to allend ^rvices. At 
lU Bloommglon, hundreds of students, (acutty 
and stjif attended a lunchtimenon — denomina- 
tional memorial service held at the lU 
Auditorium. 

Rabbi Sup Shilton of the Helenc G. Simon 
Hlllcl Center and the Rev. Rebecca Jimene/ of the 
Center (or University Ministry led attendees in 
ptayer, sang and silence. 

During the service. Rabbi Shi/ron encouraged 
those in allendance lo "(md ways to transform 
anaer into acts of goodness and carine so we can 
have peace in the world," and "lo turn to the 
community to find strength in fellowship," 

The service was highlighted b^ music provid- 
ed by vocalists and ins 1 rumen la lis Is from the lU 
School of Music. 



Ball State professor 
heading to NYC to help 

MUNCIE. Ind. — (Ball Stale News) When Ball 
Slate University's Robert Hayes cnlers New York 
i_ .1 1 j■p^^ days, he will 



than anyone imagined 
possible. 

Hayes, a counseling psy- 
chology prolcsior. will fly lo 
Ihc east coast as soon as regu- 
lar flights are allowed. 1 
serve as nn emergency coui 
selor (or the Red Cross opera- I 
tlons near Ihc demolished Haves 

\yorld TVade Center. ' 

: He is altompling to 
a]ong a croup ol Ball Stale Joctoral students lo 
wjork wiui emergency workers. 

"Every one otlhe emergency support workers 



firefighters have died. There i 
for silualior^s like IhLs." 

Hayes has been a member of the Red Cross 
Aviation Incident Response Team since 1997. 

Popular children's book 
comes to life at Purdue 

WE5T LAFAI'FrTE. Ind. — (Purdue News) 
"Lilly's Purple Plastic Purse" will be prcsenled at 
3 p.m. Sunday, Sept. 23 in Loeb Playhouse. 

Admission is 510 (or general public, 57 for 
children and Purdue students, nckets can be 
purchased at Purdue box offices or charged by 
phone at (765) 494-3933 or (800) 914-5HOW. 
'■Lilly's Purple Plaslic Puree" is presented by 
Purtlue Convocations. 

The show IS produced by the Kennedy 
Center's Imagirution Celebration on Tour Series. 
The play is adapted from author Kevin Henkes' 
children's books "Lilly's Purple Plaslic I^l^se," 
"Chester's Way" and "Julius, Ihe Baby of the 

In the play, plapvrighl Kevin Kling combines 
the stories lo share Ihe trials and Iriumphs of a 
mouse named Lilly, 

Lilly loves everything about school, especially 
her neiv teacher Mr. Slinger Lilly even decides to 
give up her ambitions ofbeing an opera diva, an 
ambulance driver and a hairdrcssei in order to be 
a teacher, just like Mr, Slinger. 

When Lilly distracts the class to show every- 
one her new purse, however, Mr. Slinger takes it 
away until the end of the school day. Hurl and 
angry, Lilly learns valuable lessons about sharing 
and forgiveness. 

The presentation is the (iret of Convoealion's 
2001-2002 Family Adventure Series. The goal of 
the series is I o provide entertainment and expo- 
sure lo Ihc arts for children and (amilies. 




New student group seeks 
to raise awareness of 
women's issues 



By Todd Hamm. News Editor 

The Feminist Majority Foundation, a new 
student gtoup on campus, hopes lo keep femi- 
nist activism alive on this campus and in Ihe 
community by raising public awareness about 
issues affecting women in Ihe US and abroad, 
said Susie Renfrow, acting president of Ihe 

"We are a group that practices the advocacy 
of the political, economic and social equality for 
women." Renfrow said. 

The group currently has (our members and is 
actively seeking more from the campus and the 
community, Kentrow said bolh men and women 
are allowed to join Ihe group. Members musi be 
pro'choice. she added. 

"My goals for the group are lo advance Ihe 
ights ofwomen and lo attack and fight 



lesbian . 

concerned about social a 



"I'm 



leadership skills in the students who I 
involved in the group. 

"I think it's important to develop leadership 
skills at a young age. I'm 44 and I am just now 
developing my leadership skills." 

Aside from coordinating the activities of the 

troup. which had ils first meeting on Sept. 4, 
enfrow is a sociology student and the secre- 
tary at the Center tor Women and Returning 
Adult Students on campus. 

One issue Renfrow hopes to raise awareness 
about is the belief that "...women are about to 
lose their reproductive righls due lo Ihe presi- 
denl we currently have." 

Another is Ihe current stale of treatment of 
women in Afghanistan. "It's stupid and archa- 
ic," Renfrow said. "Women there are being 




foru 

Renfrow said she plans to achieve her goals 
for the group by eaucalmg students and Ihe 
community about issues affecting Ihe equality 
ol women. She will also be networking with the 
national chapter of Ihe Feminist Maiority 
Foundation- 

The group was created four years ago in 
Washington, D.C. 

"It was started in response to issues on cam- 
puses nationwide," Renfrow said. 

"Students were having trouble keeping femi- 

stanl ebb and flow of' leadership every four 



She 



explained that 
from head to I 

lahT^' 



r their 



are homebound and suDjecr lo unresirainca 
spousal abuse. 

The Feminist Majority Foundation is selling 
one-inch squares of material Irom a burqua. The 
squares cost S5 each. The money goes lo help 
abused women in the country seek political asy- 
lum and contributes lo a campaign lo stop gen- 
der apartheid. 

The squares can be purchased at the Cenler 
for Women and Rclurning Adult Sludenls in 
Walb Union, Room C25. 



Shyness not in the genes, says 
lU psychology researcher 



NEW ALBANY. Ind, — (lU News) People are 
not born shy, according lo Bernardo Carcfucci, a 
professor of psychology al Indiana University 
Southeast. 

In a recent paper. Carducci. director of lU 
Soulheas's Shyness Research Institute, cites sev- 
eral reasons for why the answer to the question: 
"Are we bom shy?" is no. Carducci, author of 
"Shyness; A Bold New Approach (Harper 
Perennial, 2000)," said that shyness is character- 
ized by excessive se It- consciousness, negative 
self-evaluation and self-preoccupation. All 
Ihrec characteristics involve a sense of self, 
which Carducci said does not exist al birth. 

"The question oi the origin of the sense of self 
has been of interest lo not only shyness 
researchers, but also some of the world's great- 
est thinkers," Carducci said, "Charles Darwin 
proposed as early as the 1870s that a child's 
sense of self originates when the child is first 
able to recognize himself or herself in a mirror, 
something Inal doesn't occur until the child is 
approximately 18 months old." 

Carducci said early childhood shyness often 
is confused with an inhibited temperament — a 
biological condition characlerized by excessive 
physiological ai\d behavioral reaclions to envi- 
ronmental stimuli, present in about 20 percent 
ol newborns 

Infants with an inhibited temperament kick 
their legs and (eel more often, are prone lo 
longer and louder bouts of crying and have 
higher heart rales. Toddlers with inhibited tem- 
perament. Carducci said, exhibit behaviors 
associated with shyness, such as playing alone 
and hiding in Ihe presence of strangers. 

"An inhibited temperament is not the same 
as shyness, nor does it guarantee thai an inhib- 
ited infant will be a shy adult, or that an unin- 
hibited infant will nol grow up to be shy." 
Carducci said. 

He also noted that while only about one in 
five infants exhibit this condition at birth, 
research over the last 25 years indicates that 40 
to 43 percent of adults surveyed consider them- 
selves to be shy. 

In his work with shy people, Carducci found 



that only about 9 percent of the people he's spo- 
ken to believe they were born shy, 

"Family factors" are the leading reason atlrib- 
uted lo shyness, according lo Carducci's research, 

"About 40 percent of the people I surveyed 
cited such laclons as a lack of family support, 
parental absence, parents not leaching social 
skills, overproteclive parents, parental neglect 
and other family-related issues for their shy- 

"Other categories I've found for self-per- 
ccivcd shyness arc psychological problems, an 
abusive past and physical appearance or 
; : Obviously, these are not charac- 



To deal effectively with shyness, Carducc 
id it's important lor shy pi 
Ihc characteristics of snyr 



terislics that people are'bom with." 

of shyi 
sel (-preoccupation and set(- 

Carducci said shy people should try to shid 
their focus from themselves to others by getting 
involved in activities like volunteering. 

"The successfully shy don't change who Ihey 
arc. They change the actions they lake and the 
way they think," Carduc 



beliefs and environmental factors is part of thii 
process. Once shy individuals understand the 
nature and underlying dynamics of their shy- 
ness, they are in a better position to lake actions 



Photo by Todd Hamm, News Editor 
Susie Renfrow, acting president of the 
Feminist M^ijority Foundation, a new 
student group on campus, holds a 
piece of material from a burqua, the 
traditional dress women in 
Afghanistan are forced lo covi:r them- 
selves with. The new group hopes lo 
help Afghani women seek political 
asylum by selling one inch scjuarcs of 
the material to raise money. 

Hepatitis, from p. 1 

intensity. 

There are many diflerent symptoms one 
can have, including liver cancer, cirrhosis 
(scarring), yellowing of the skin, and flu — 
like ailments such as nausea and muscle 
aches. The younger a person is when he or 
she contracts the disease, the higher the pos- 
sibility is that he or she will have symptoms. 

To find out if you already have Hepatitis B, 
call the DepartmenI of Health (or a free blood 



rally 



If you decide lo donate blood lo Ihe ' 
of Ihc recent Iragcdv, they will aulom&lt; 
screen you for this disease. 

Very soon, the Wellness Center will be dis- 
tributing vaccines for Hepatitis B, at the cost 
of S78,75, If you go to the Department of 
Health, it would cost S150- The vaccine is a 
scries of three shots, administered by trained 
protcssionals. 

In the words o( Dr. Deborah McMahan. the 
Fort Wayne/ Allen County Heallh Commissioner, 
"These people do this (or a living," 

When asked if this event will be held every 
year. Dr. McMahan said, "I hope so." If there 
is a good turn-out. she intends lo offer it 
every year, 

"You can't look al someone to see if they 
are infected. You need lo protect yourself." 
she added. 

While condoms are a good contraceptive, 
they are nol guaranlced to protect against 
Hepatitis B or other diseases, such as AIDS. 

The vaccines will be administered in the 
Wellness Clinic. Room 234 in Ihe Walb Union, 
on September 20th, (rom 10 am lo 6 pm. 



Check out The 
Communicator 
online for all 
the latest ipfw 

NEWS. 



Big test 

tomorrow? 



d with Qu/ehSludir" lam, 



QuickStudy. 




IPFWs #1 Dance Patty Club! ... DUHI 



THE BEST LIVE ROCK THURSDAY-SATURDAY 



TTInrsday. Eaptamdar 20 

FAT A** ZEKE 

FrUay, SBptentisr 21 

HEAVY STEP 

Sst[nlay,Sa|itBnABr22 

THE AGENCY 



nii'8day,SB|itaiter27 

NORTHERN KIND 

Frldai.SiiitnlKrZI 

SHAFFER STREET 

Sstirdsy.SqitBaABrZB 

COMMON GROUNO 

LADIES NITE THURSDAY • COVER JUST $1 
M*0*M*S (Midwest Original Music Showcase) 




cm on -M.O.M- loi IDEE THDISlin 

I HJGjn com I 



Tnat^.SapUoilnrS 

STRUT TIAIN£LOllYBAGtERS 



TiBSlsy DctiAarZ 

■ JOHNAIHAN WIMPE 




SUNNY TAYLOR • JOHNAIHAN WIMPE • MAIT SIURM 

On tlie Landing « 135 VV. Columbia St., Fort Wayne » 422-5055 » tvwvv.columbiastreetwest.com 



