THE COMMUNICATOR. 1974-75. 



■*"*» W*VW.TY.PU» DU[1JNJVHlsr 




COMMUNICATOR 



Schwartz tentatively plans to 
appoint single academic officer 



ias announced tentative plans to 
single accademic officer for the 
designated 



mmendation? cm onii'icum 



forces of the Ad Hoc Joint Faculty Streering 
Committee (AHJFSCi as well as informally 
with faculty groups and individual members 
of the faculty," said Schwartz. "There 
appears to be overwhelming support on this 



certain steps to speed up the process of 
selection after the task forces reports. There 
is an advertisement to be placed in the 

Chronicle of Higher Education soliciting 
applications for the post: Also planned is 



III trustees put off action on 
financial agreement 



The deferment seems to have caught 
t Waynes Chancellor Donald Schwartz 
Purdue President Arthur Hansen 



■ther problems ii 

Under the plan as last submitted* I 
ard, Indiana would pay Purdue i 



i last 

ugust. The first time was due to the arrival 
: Chancellor Schwartz, the second was 
ecause of the addition of Carolyn Gutman 
deferral was 

t spelling out specific interpret - 



e board to defer action on the FMA 
during the public session of the board 
meeting. The request was approved with the 



President Hansen o 




ice-sk:Hiun rink hefore t 



Accor d ing to Norde en 









'[ policy fc 






hiianeially 

two boards w 
to the full bo 
campus. Chancellor S 
two chairmen have appointed the sub-com- 
mittee although it was not known when 
meetings would begin. 



an agreement for 



President and Treasurer Frederick Ford. 
Sources also said that distrust of Purdue had 
entered into the last decision to defer the 
FMA during the September meeting of the 

Schwartz again stated his hope that the 



Germaine Greer 
to speak on campus 



w available froo 
I holders and may I 
;t Shoppe in the Unio 



Eckankar path to God-realization 



l positive phenmnct 



] religion, .] philosophy, an occult, 
i. It is simply a direct path to the 
ization state. II is done through 
d through physical participation in 



ancelloi 






after death? Why are 
been here before? They 

through their 



s and Is often called the 

f "Haven't I been here 
s familiar." Perhaps one 



There is always 



turned crimson v 



■ ' announced dial s 



It will interfere with n 



speed, capacily. and dr&gt;:;i 

Although Kckisfs 
prosHyiize, interested 

i onlact Hncer Nnrdeen al 



Ihcroiiiorio! iilliinale reality. I 

In the beginning of our ji 
auhvulu.il through the lower u 



weekly 

sday, October 31. 

operated wilhou 

the past, but du 

developed over 



of tickets for the last I 
Student Senate unani 




ighest plane called 
country", for this 



ncss and establish wilhui one. 

sigmlicanceot the position dial 
in all places simiillaiieonsly " 



Senate gives Student Union 
Board strict guidelines 



distribu- 

ously approved 

.ICl.Uf, 

if funds by 
t January 1, lb 



aJlecled t&gt;\ llie lull He :■: 



allow students 



The senate also heard a report from 
Teagarden concerning the newly-formed 
Indiana Student Association, which is 
holding its first General Assembly meeting 
Sunday, November 10, in Terre Haute. 

Assembly representing the Fort Wayne 
area, mentioned that the- priority activity ol 
ISA is the appointment of a student to the 




Newly-elected County Auditor Joan Daley Uebelhoer will d 
life and writings of suffragette Elizabeth Cady Stanton in - - 
Thursday evening at 8:15 p.m. in the Fori Wayne " 



age comparisons of the t&lt; 
intury. The program will follow t 



dramatization 
separated 
Fort Wayne Feminists' monthly 



Unified governing 
body discussed 



nl his a&lt;immisl 
ourselves, :■■ 



HansChrisi.-ii-.en is ii-,nt\ to add the finish in" louehes to his poster 
Arts and Crafts room, located on the second floor of the Student Union. 



avail, dile. 



Al'ljirs ( oioiinltee. until 



INSIDE 



r very special problems a 



Fiscal management agreement 

Three things are certain in life; death, taxes, and tabling of the fiscal 
management agreement for IPFW by the l.U. Board of Trustees. *" 
last week, some people died, others paid I 
agreement again. 

The l.U. irustees' action, or lack of action, on the fiscal managemenl 
agreement is getting harder and harder to understand or explain. Chancellor 
4«.iii' s a \s thai "lir whole thing is mil of his hands and is a board mailer. 

The trustees' latest non-action apparently caught everyone by surprise, 
including I U. President John Kvan and Executive Vice President Cicarge I'lnndl 
Purdue President Arthur Hansen told a Communicator reporter last Thursday that 
the issue was settled and the agreement would be in effect after the November 1 
I U board meeting. He obviously is surprised. 

Sui'priM-- .is,,],- If'l-'w iv IcM without ., unifie.l busine'-s olfic- -till Mils Is 
certain (o make one Donald Schwartz happy, the man hired by Die trustees tr» unify 
the campus. The business office people must be pleased and the editors of this 
newspaper are tickled to death. 

The l.U. trustees have been understandably cautious in dealing with Purdue 
Treasurer Fred Ford The words "good faith" are inoperable with him. But the 
agreement on IPFW is in writing, with additional assurances from Messrs, 
Schwartz and Pinnell Dial I.U.'s interests will be protected. 

The fiscal management agreement tor IPFW is a must. The universities have 
already reneged on liietr pi omiso to seek Cencral Assembly approval for a single 
allocation and unified budget for the Fort Wayne campus. The present situation 
must be changed. 

The new leadership on campus this year can make a fiscal management 
agreement work A single chancellor, a new Purdue business manager, and 
increased autonomy from Ford arc the contributing factors to [he new Optimism, 
i the pari of The Comm 



Student loans 

The Federally Insured Student Loan (FISL) program is in trouble because o I 
the high number'of defaults in loan repayments The &lt;.oner.il Accounting Office 
est, males (hat the defaults will total nearly one-hall billion dollars this year. The 
hill will have to be paid by the taxpayer. 

Under (he program, a commercial bank will lend money to a college student 
with interest and payments postponed until the student graduates. The 
Departnienl of Health, Kducation, and Welfare guarantees the loan lo the bank. If 
the hank cannot collect, the federal government pays off the loan. 

Congress is nol likely lo pick Up a half million dollars worth of defaults each 
year without seriously evaluating the value of the program. Contraction or 
elimination of the program will work hardships on college students, especially at a 
university like IPFW where more students have to pay their own way. 

Because of rising tuition and other college costs, students arc having lo Ikiitow 
more to gel through Then, when graduated, they find a restricted job market and 
light mone\ Loan repayments are difficult and, in many cases, nearly impossible 

Some students declare bankruptcy. Others request special d&lt; ferrinenls from 
the banks Still ollicrs jusl quit paving or try to hide by moving and leaving no 
turwarding address In any case Hie taxpayers get the bill for the defaults. 

Many of the defaults come from students who never finished school. To them 
the loan will not bring a return through improved employment. The money was 
t..ri..Aed against future earnings, which are no belter than past. 

Some sludonls have In-come the victims of schools which folded, leaving the 
indents without a diploma Willi with a nice dehl These schools usually relied on 
the FISL program heavily to recruit students in the first plat 

The government lias promised a crack-down 
require banks lo screen loan uppllcf 
efforts. 
. . An improved minium with healthy job and money markets will also help the 

But, let's face It. The primary obligation lor decreasing I lie number of defaults 
lies with the students who borrow Too many students are spending now without 
adequate thought of repayment tomorrow Students owe il lo themselves to fully 
consider their repayment possibilities before signing for the cash. 

Better acceptance oi icsponsibility by Ihe student is the first step toward 
restoring stability lo the FISL program. 

Women in sports 



ding lo the Title IX d 



l&gt;c -n virtually all male Coeds were view, 

us potential cheerleaders, and little nior 

Now. Willi Title IX. thai is all ehiiiiRing 

Every university musl explore ru 

miTudinn athletics. Several universili 
have developed title w omens inter cillcec, 
,,thl, tu programs. II now appears 111 



discover discrim 


1 &gt; ""'- "•«"" 




M 


Rollie 
Clements 


Ll 


SSttLS 


.'■in 'ill!',,.' rn'molnnV' 



■■■mull U.'iliriiiioi' 



deep rooted, li aditional 
.'iisily Persons 



is Concluding Quote 



o changes in almosl 



f funds for tfu 
r problem, 



OPINION 



Decade of drug use not over yet 



1 months Americans 
massive celebration 

ss auspicious land- 



in ighi he culled the "decade ol drug use and 
abuse. "It will be approximately len years 
since drugs on campuses become common- 
place ami prevalent. 

Whereua many Midwestern colleges 
spared the mid-sixties blight ol 
-niiipau! drug oxpcrimenlalion, Ihe Pacific 



e Fori Wayne Police 
sd in s single decade 



ary's LSD investigations, or the youn 
/yer might have been hooked on speed a 
undcrgrad back al Yale In th 



mportant and 




Hansen, Purdue administration 
given equal time by paper 



"■en onRiRli. in cur altention that 
hi picking upon the udminislra- 
l.U. side of IPFW. They point lo 



ELZSUi 


itss 


^JpTTh"' 


Kurt ^ . -X^B 



e, in their cute way, jusl as funny as the 
les in Bloomington. 

They just lack a certain style in Ihe way 
ey make changes. While l.U President 
ihn Ryan was adding five new vicc-prcsi- 
■nls anicric. the hullabaloo of a complete 



did he increase his insulation from the real 
world by only a single person, he did it 

without reorganizing the e 



flunky All of the space g 

1 1 hi H.ua/ation probably g 



example of P.U.': 
also robbed Ihe t 



Remembi 
y presider 
something about it? It w 




Bundza : 'It's your duty' 



advertisements v 




reappear out of nowhere 
studied ihe theatrics of this 



second, I was offended at seeing thi 

Certainly not your publication of 
firmly support your right (and i 
publish anything. I was offended, 
by Ihe underlying social forces t 
conceived and given birth to 
"service" and resulting ad. It 1 
deeply to see a price tag put oi 
companionship. 

ad is an example of sexual oppre 



Wrong facts 



a policy, advertisements 
ild not be accepted. 
expectation that The 



ous letters on this subject and from il 
d policy of accepting all ads. At lea: 
i attempt I 



change this policy, both n 



e and as discrimi- 



controlled, and dispensed l&gt;y II 



i they had a person 

is") and have attempted to 
udcnls of IPFW a good recap o 
id Arty Show. The season is still 
e think we'll see Ihe two schoo 



if The Communicator's 



only is Ihe ad in dubious tas 
exploitative of women and 
come dangerously close (o 
proslilulion. It is no ace 
telephone number given i 



s owned by Indiana 
in. IPSN leases ' 



'COMMUNICATOR 



Established 1969 



Michael A. Snyder 

Managing Editor 



"Okay! Okay!.... Take it 



;en disappointing: instead of serious 
.nsidennc whether the ad should ha&lt; 
;en refused on Ihe grounds lhal it 



position reserved for a particular el 
group i "No Blacks need apply" 1 . Not on 
such an ad patently offensive, but sucl 
ad is prohibited by law. It should be 
responsibility of a student newspaper ti 



Prisoner requests 
correspondence 



wondering if 
or female. I 



night be able to help n 



MgLANGE 

Hints make freezing more efficient 



3 The Communicator Thurs. November 7 




A man who puts his leisure time to good use. A man who regularly frequents the local business 
establishments. A man who would trust his friends with his life-arid maybe even his horse. Fact: 93.2 
per cent of all cowboys at Indiana-Purdue relax between poker bets with The Communicator. You can 
reach this lucrative market for only 25 cents with a Communicator classified ($1.00 for anyone outside 
the university). 



San Francisco 



Columbia City 



At commuter campus 

Students have special problems 




ARTS S FUN 



No surprise that Browne's 'Late for 
the Sky' is another masterpiece 



'Taste of Honey' next at PIT 




Prohibition ridiculous failure 



REDWOOD INN 

1432 W. MAIN 422-8995 

FORT WAYNE 'S FINEST PIZZA 

GRlHDERS 
BROASTED CHICKEN 
SAUSAGE RqLLs 





SPORTS 

Natters complete successful season 



:rediled (he players. 



for gaining experience; a grow- 
ing year. He hopes all the players 

will play some during the winter 
at the Fort Wayne Racquet Club. 
II practice for two hours 



The Mastodon cheerleaders (or the 74-75 set 
Friday. They are. on the left. Assistant Captain Vlcki Dosler. top. and 
Rosie Regedane. bottom. Also, in the middle are Deannc Spyrcs. 
standing; and Goyle Allerkruse, kneeling. On the right arc Captain Pam 
Craig, top, and Susie Schcnhler, bottom. 

Women's so ft ball 
considered at IPFW 



excellent b 
Considering the s&lt; 



organize jj girl's gaini- » 
ng ol (he Joint Com 



? II'FW diamonds 



ihe Intramural director, and ii 
Individual reports Indicating (I 



Athletic Advisory C 



Many of them Improved techn- 
iques and basics. They learned 
most Important of oil how to 

Bolyurd was pleased with 



excellent play 



: and Saturday mornings I 



Mastodons played their 

".i-.ih subduing the Foreste 
A victory in Uiat match wai 
they needed tor a winning s&lt; 




Coach Chuck Bolyard warms up a Mastodon tennis player during a 
practice. Bolyard and Dr. Ben Becker often participated with the team 
In preparation for important matches. Their method proved effective as 
the young team finished the season with 9-5 record. 



Intramural playoffs 



cited 



nstcr, a member of Ihe dtii-lnium-ni of women's inter 

in li'FW i heerleader, ' "llcglale Softool! ond volleyball. 
he committee tlml oi I" other commillee activity, 

all-dn/en uirls have the defining of the Hports 

iwn inl-'rcsl in having program was discussed, 
miereiillcglalo soft- 



i- ii ul .[lecial p 






s fori 



iG school has softboll 
id equipment, Willi- 
i lacully member of 

vent other coaching 

lly, small Indiana 



r approval by 

said "we wanl sauQa "' " Tom ployed number one 

ya&gt;;piTl We nerd ''ir us Ii.-r dilfirull conditions 

we are al Ihe Heilid ,i very lomerulalile jt&gt;k He 
ad where we waul wi " certainly be missed," said 
Bolyard. 



Ft Wayne tough in IBA 



1 playoffs. Stoneface, game, 
egular depth 
i first Their 



&gt; undefeated in regulai 



even dribbles to the f 
Helninger dribbles at 



'However, Stoneface has a 
~y solid defence, and an 
jlosive offense with White and 

The Eagles, who lost only one 
ne, have the greatest team 
ne in the league, 

completely dif- 

:nse, and Hank 
ir most versatile 

Bunch has been 
imes during the 

las had trouble 



Who is director of 
IPFW intra murals? 



e slips a pass through 

" ris. Dick 

Shbotsl 



pulls off the rebound. 
Smith. They have a 




Phone for a free 
schedule. 

432-4546 




BOOK SA 
USED 

BOOK SA 
USED BOOKS 

Starts 
Wednesday, 
November 13 

Indiana-Purdue Library 



WOMEN'S 
SOFTBALL 



We are in the process of organizing a Women's 
Softball team to play on an intercollegiate level with 
other colleges and universities in the Tri-state area. 
Equipment and coaching have been donated, and we 
need interested women to fill the team. We will 
operate on a club basis this year, and hopefully 
progress to-a full Varsity sport, perhaps as early as 
next year. If you are interested, please come up to 
room 225 in the Student Union, or call 482-5351. 



