THE 



Communicator 



THItRSnAV, Mahch 13. 2001 



Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne 



VOLUME 35 
ISSUE 23 



Multicutural Services 
center profiled / page 3 



McCartney photography in 
Fort Wayne / page 4 



Professor . IPSGA Candidates discuss 



receives 

President's 

Award 



elections, ask students to vote 



by KrislJn Partridge 
Slaff Writer 



Patrick J. Ashldn. ussociale profeuorar! 
ology H IPFW. teecnily icccivcd Ihe csiccmcd 
President's Award from [tidiiinii Unjvcrsily 
Piusidcnl Mylci Brand. 

The award, presenled Id Athlon on March 4 
ol lU's Founder's Day Ceremony in Bloominglon, 
honors citcllcncc in leaching, research or service 
jughoui lU's campus 




Ashlon has tiughl 
IPFW for 21 years. During 
this time, he has published 
many articles on pedagogy 



lions on teaching at local and 
national conferences. 

Ashlon also has a great 
appicciatinn Tor cultural 



dents or diverse bai 
gmunds who ponicipatc 
the IPBV Summer Bridge 

iroflU's Family Col loquiui 



m Excellence in Teach 



In addition to Ihe President'^ Award. Astilon 
hoi nlin been Ihe recipient of iwo other pteiiigious 
awards. 

The John P. Ulmer Oulstanding Sen-icc to 
Minorily Studenls Award was given (o Ashlun in 
1999 tor his work in diversity on campus. 

Also in 1999, Ashlon received The North 
Central Sociological Assocralions' Distinguished 
Contributions to Teaching Award. 

A former sludenl of Ashton's, Michael Lucas, 
said Ihat "often there is a special person along the 
way who otfets insighl. advice and encourage- 
" " ' n fonunale to have found these qualities 



For Vicc-Pnaidcnl for Pm); ramming 

Shawn Hodel 

Senior, graduation date Spnng 2002 

Major: Communicalion. minor in Public 

Relations 

Communicator: Why do you want this position? 
SH; I've been Ihe Senate pro-temp ihe last two 
years, and this is a logical step up. I have nothing 
more to gain as pari of the board. I would like to 
get programming for students they would like to 
see. for instance big-name concerts on campus 
and more family-oriented events. 



position? 

BM; Students deserve more. SAB has been doing 
an average job Ihc last few years in bringing 
events and it's time to improve on ihaL I have 
good relationships with people on campus, and 
am strong with building relationships ivilh people 
off-campus, I would be an asset to sludents in 
improving life on campus. 

Communicator: Any final comments? 
BM: As a student lo another student. I'm asking 
you to go out and do something on March 28 and 
29. That would be lo vote and I'm asking that you 
consider myself In my opinion, the most quali- 
fied candidate for any position would be Justin 
Busch, 



Communicator Why do you want this position? 
MH: I've been at IPFW since the spring of 1996. 
It's Ihe only college I've gone to. I have a lot of 
pride in this school and would like the chance to 
be involved with students and the administration, 
working towards things like dorms and pride in 
the university itself. 

Communicator. How arc you qualified? 
MH: 1 am a senior in finance in the business 
school and have gained quite a few experiences 
thraugh Ihc business end. I've served as President 
of Sigma Phi Epsilon this past year. Jusl oboui 
every job I've had has required management 
skills and responsibilities. 



c you qualified for this 



Communicat 
position? 

SH: I've been on the board for six years, I'm a 
(ivc-lime delegate to die National Association of 
Campus Activities, and have been Senate pro- 
temp for two years. One year I was the Public 
Relations chair of die board, I've done a lot of 
bridge- building between SAB and the Senate, 

Communicator; Any final 
SH: Gel out there and vote, 
the candidates before you vo 
these posilions make dei 



Cnndidales For Sludenl Body President 



lease! Get lo know 
^ because people in 
sions Ihat affect 






How to reoch Shawn Hodel with questions about 

hodesl01@holmes,ipfw,edu 

Brian Miller 

Major; Public Relations 

Other current activities: University sub-commit- 
tee on aihlelici. alternate on campus appeals, 
voice of 'Dons (PA announcing) for home athlet- 
ic games, student assistant Sports Information 
dircclor for University Athletic Director 

Communicator: Why do you want this position? 
BM: The reason I would like this ofTice is because 
I think my character and my personality kind of 
fil what I would feel the average sludenl is look- 
ing for to represent the Student Activities Board 
Director. I've been someone who is very active at 
IPFW, i feel being proactive in your school is 
important, I Ihink I would be good for this olTicc. 
Another reason is I feel it offers a lot of experi- 
ence for my career, I want to be in charge of 
bringing events to campus, such as sports, bands. 



e you qualified for this 



Communicator: Why do you want this position? 
JB: I've been in Student Ijovernmeni for about a 
year now. 1 think I'd be able to represent the stu- 
dents. I sec a lot of things I want to change. 
Student Government is not known around cam- 
pus, and I want to change that. We have a lot of 
money for different programs but students don't 
know a lot about it. 

Communicator: How are you qualified? 
IB: In addition to being involved with Student 
Government for about a year now, I've also 
worked closely widi the current president Nick 
Gray. 1 know Ihe responsibilities involved in the 
presidency, i'd like lo keep Ihe dixir open — peo- 
ple could come in and make thcii 



about his candidacy: Communicator: Any final comments? 

MH: 1 really feel IPFW is on Ihc brink of becom- 
ing whal everybody talks about as a true college 
campus. We're breaking away not only from the 
commuter atmosphere, but a' 
thought with Division I and Ihc dorms. 



How 



Majoi 



r: Why di 



Communicator: Any finol comments? 
JB: I urge all students to come out and vole and 
take part in this year's election. It would be an 
honor for me. If I'm elected president, I would 
strive to make changes so that student govern- 
ment was closer to the student body that is serves. 
And that its highest officer's door was always 
open lo any student to come widi their concerns. 
Let your voice be heard, Wjlc Busch, 



How to 



ul his Candida - 



Mike Hascnkamp 

Major: Business 

Other cutTcnt activities: Marketing Club. Siama 

Phi Epsilon 



this position? 
JW: 1 want to do some things for the students, I 
want to represent the students to die administra- 
tion and the community. There are several pro- 
grams I'd like to implement, such as a suicide 
hotline, a two- to three-year rolling class schedule 

towards getting legal services for students, and 
continue current efforts to get teacher evaluations 

Communicator: How are you qualified? 
JW: I served on the Judicial Court for one year, 
and one year in the Student Senate, I am a mem- 
ber of the Sludenl Ambassador Council, ASTRO, 
Sludenl Orientation And Regisu-ution (SOAR), 
the Vice-Chancellor's Wellness Council. Ihe 
Vicc-(:hanccllor's Affirmalrvc Action Suh- 
Commiltec and am a member of Delta Sigma Pi 
professional business fraternity for men and 
women. 

Communicator: Any final comments? 
JW: I want as many students as possible on cam- 
pus to get involved and vote. 
How to conucl Jan Wade: 
wadcjIOl @ho(mail,com 



Bugs in the Bathroom 




graphc design by Dgddy Jong. Pholo Edilor 



a ■ J-n ''iJ^'^SS are an ongoing problem on t^tnpus, in the Helmke Ubrary and 
Science Buildtno especially, said Dave Oanielson, director of the Physical Plan! This 
sign, which reads. Please do something about these bugs. It is a health hazard' they 



are getting inio the loilel paper loo' wasVund" wedged beneath'OTe'mrrTO'rof'S 
restroom in the Helmke lihrary lotinge. 

When asked whether his department knew about Ihe problem, Danielson said 
ireat'ih ^"^ ^'"^''^ ^" ongoing problem and we have been doing our best to 



Author recounts struggle 
with rebel daughter 






turned 13 she was 
formed from a sweet, 
child inio an angry, si 
teenager who would 
listen, nor be disciplined. 

Her mother, well- 
known jourrutisl Adair Lara, 
stood by almost helplessly ai 
she spun oui of control. 

Morgan indulged In 
practically every vice a par- 
daughter might eiperimcnl 
with-drinking, drug use. dis- 



and stealing a 

For Adair it became a 
tense and problematic five 
year joumey-a trial compli- 
cated by the reappearance in 
hei life of her aging father, a 

children 







Inevitably. Morgan's 
misbehavior reminded Lara 
of her own headstrong ado- 
lescence, while her father's 
presence made real for her 
die consequences of giving 
up on a child. 

Ironically, he became 
the source of her best advice 



ing 



Pholo by DoOdy Jong, Pholo Edilor. 
Adair Lara, led, shared memories ol parenting her 
rebellious daughter Morgan, right, 

Morgan described her experimentation and 

childhood-most of which deviance before ii hod a 

spent living with her chance to impact and dam- 
age her adult life, 

Morgan eventually 

uiing OUI now to cook went on lo graduate from the 

dinner." Universiiy of California at 

When her mother Santa Cruz. Bodi molhcrand 

remamed. she recalled feel- daughter live in San 

ing as if some of her former Francisco, where Adair Lam 

jobs and responsibilities had is a columnisi for The San 

been taken away from her, Francisco Chronicle, She is 

She candidly told audi- also die author of three odicr 
ence members that when she books and has been pub- 
became a teenager some- lished in numerous national 
thing inside of her "explod- magazines. 
ed." She became the type of -Hold Me Close, Let 
person who never wanted lo Me Go" is an emotionally 
miss out on anything, and so charged, often bnually hon- 
crything she could est memoir that evokes 



Last Monday night 
modier and daughter, now on 
a book lour promoting "Hold 
Me Close, Let Me Go." 
Adair Lara's chronicle of her 
daughter's rebellious years. 



d skipped class o 



night 1 



ould 



to be s teenager. The book 
lists for S23.9S and a. avail- 
able ai Little Professor Book 
Company in town. 









Opinions 



Scrapping the SAT 



Univemiy of California freiiifeni Richird 
Alkimcm'iFeh 18 innouncemenl of hii plini Id 
el&gt;min»(i ihe Schorutrc Apliludc Teil (SAT) 
admliimn requireinenl 31 UC ii hirdly (he riisl 
lime such an idea hu been proposed. 

Inficl. Ihe menu and value of [he SAT hive 
been aiucked ind cnlicizcd numerous lima in 
ihe ncaily 75-ycar (enure the lol has held as one 
of Ihe most Importani unuen (eiu an American 
will lake in hii lifeiime. 

Alkinson'j cridciinu. however, have gained 
much more alleniion Ihan prcvloui aiucks. 
Urgely. this it due lo the facl ihol UC. a nine- 
campui CallFomia iniiiiulian. is one of ihc 
biggcsl and mm influenlial univcmly syslems in 
the nation. A policy change al UC would likely 
cieale a new ptecedinl for many other Amencan 
schools lo rollow. 

The premise ofAlkinson'sallack on (he lest 
is Ihal il both distorts the "college admissions 
process" and opls not (o "measure mastery 
of...moie specific tubject areas." wriles 
Waihinglon Post writer Michael Fleicher in an 
anicle reprinted in (he Feb. 18 etlitian of the 
Journal Gaicue. 

Dollai Morning News columnist Ruben 
Navanetle has given a plausible interpretation of 
jusi how ihe SAT distorls the "college admissions 
process." His inlerpretalion, inaMarch Sedilori- 
fll also reprinted m the Journal Gazelle, dcsaibes 
how Ihe npplicalion process, at least the SAT por- 
linn of il. is misrcpic.&lt;&lt;ntcd in the minds of both 
high school students and their parents. Navan-ctle 
writes Ihal Sludcnls and parents alike obsess over 
ihe icsl and sec it as the primary dclcrmming fac- 
tor for college admiltance. This, he writes, gives 
sludenu an nUs. unwanted burden of stress in 
their lives. They should concentrate more on their 
classwork. not the SAT. he writes. 

The second aspecl of Atkinson's criticism, 
focusing on Ihe subject matter ihc lest measures, 
suggcsu that it misses Ihe boat on how an appli- 
cant should be Icsled and judged as fit or unlit for 
(he rigois of college. 



Fletcher surmised ihai the SAT meuures 
"the more vaguely defined notions of aptitude" 
instead of practical learning and understanding 
(aught in specific courses 

The idea, piesumably. is thai the lest meas- 
ures the ptobabilily of how well a student might 
be able (0 do in college. 

What this proves, however, is questionable. 

Why lest (he pn*abiliiy of what a uudent 
may or may not be able lo nccomptish in college? 

Much can change belween the time a itu- 
dcnl lakes Ihe SAT and his or hei first college 
clams and icrtn papers ore due 

Particularly many sludcnis do a lol of grow- 
ing up and maturing when they realize what (hey 
are responsible for in college-nnd that no one is 
(here to tell ihem what to do or give (hem guid- 

The SAT measures, in a sense, what many 
siudents have yet to learn; complex reading com- 
prehension and analysis, advanced vocabulary 
and mathematical ability well beyond the aca- 
demic or intermediate levels learned by students 
at Ihe lime of the tcsl. 

This in Itself renders the SAT completely 

How can you Icsl someone nn something he 
or she has not had the opporlunity U) learn? Doa 
it prove Ihal he or she cannot eventually Icam 
(hose skills merely because at the lime of Ihe test 
they failed al ihem? No. It proves nothing. 

This is where Ihe SAT fails. It disregards the 
fact thai siudents will gain greater comprehension 
and inlelleclual maturation after (hey (ake (he 
SAT It also overlooks Ihe fact thai the fundamen- 
(als of what you an: tested on in the SAT you will 
be taught anyway in many freshman classes. 

The SAT also undermines the faci that you 
can succeed in college if you are determined 
enough. There are countless ways to improve 
your college skills-from tutoring lo seeking esua 
help from professoiv-thal are proven to make 
struggling students succeed. How can the SAT 
compensate for this? And why should schools 
lum away students who have (he potential to be 




successful, but just need a little help from a tutor? 
Alkinson's plan is to use the SAT achieve- 
ment lest until a belter means of assessing high 
school Sludenu' abilities is developed. The 
achievement lest focuses more on specific areas 
of learning and comprehension instead of stu- 

Evcntually he plans to eliminate Ihe SAT 
achievement test from require merits loo. replac- 
ing them with presumably more worthwhile and 
elTective allemalives. 

Perhaps whal could be used as a subsiitule is 
Ihe obvious notion of basing a studenl's proclivi- 
ty to succeed or fail in college on high school 
class grades. In this cose schools must look pri- 
marily al Ihc 'weighted' classes like English, 



h or giikemmcnl inMcad of eleciives 

Other aspccu like a student's essay wnung 
ilics. communily service patlicipalion or 
k history also could play a more important 



Unive 



; opplic; 



ighi also consider insiituiing 
probationary period in place ofrelying so heav- 
iiy on an application. Studenu' abilities can be 
belter gauged by having Ihem toke a dual college 
courses lo dcteimine whether or not they will be 
successful. 



Letter to the editor Consider This. 



Distance Learning Series benefits all 



I would like to thank IPFW students and 
Susan Bonor. Director of Services for Students 
with Disabilities, for attending and participating 
in the teleconference on Febiuary 20 titled: 
"What's Wrong with this Picture?' 

Bui. I am disappoimed that more IPFW 
students and slafT do not take advantage of Ihis 
free Distance Learning Series, IPFW Services 
for Studenu with Disabilities co-sponsors this 
training with the League for the Blind 4 
Disabled, The goal of Ihis venture is to promote 
education on the Americans with Disabilities 
Act as a service lo you and your community! 
And, since il is on your campus no traveling is 

Each teleconference has a specific targeted 
audience that (he infonnalion will apply (o, Tlie 
three training tracks arc: Architectural - If you 
arc studying archileclurc, construction or interi- 
or design, you should consider attending these; 
Employment &amp; Human Resources - These ses- 
sions would bencril people who arc studying or 
praclicing business, organizational leadership. 
public affairs, etc; General - Information pre- 
sented during these sessions is beneficial lo 
everyone and discusses cutrent issues related (o 
Ihe Americans with Disabilities Ac(. 

The lille of Ihe teleconference itself will 
also assist in determining if Ihe session could be 
helpful. Or for more informaiion, call ihe 
Lcagucai441-0SSI. 

Sludenu. ask yom instractor if he/she will 
allow eslra ciedil lo attend a teleconference. 
Following the teleconference, there is a local 
guest speaker lo provide commentary and 



Siatf. why noi access Ihis free training to 
get Ihc most up- to -dale informaiion on Ihe 
ADA. Learn how changes may impact you and 
what you arc leaching your sludenu. 

Here are the upcoming teleconferences for 
(he test of the year, along with Ihe track, Hope 
(o see you I here! 



Special thanks this week lo Paul Houser. 
jnilirapology student and building services tcch- 
niLijn. Housci said "Consider This., is the best 
new feature added to The Communicator in years! 
Thank you," He also contributed the following 
quote for this week's column; 






"What is a man if he is nol a thief, u 
ly charges as much as he can for the 
sells?" "Mahatma Gandhi, cilcd in Mother Jones 
(Jan'Feb 2000) 



4/17; General: To Complain or Nol la 
Complain? Mediate? or File Suii7i Unraveling 
ADA Resolution Oplions 



7/17: General ADA Status Report 

8/21: General Two Tickets, please... 

9/18: Architectural: Designing Accc 
Lodging FaclliUes 

Pat Howard 

Informaiion &amp; Referral Coordinator 

League for the Blind &amp; Disabled. Inc. 



Other qilotes to consider this week: 

"People who are full of sincerily and good- 
will lend not lo be afraid of facing others." -the 
words of Burmese leader Aung San Suu Kyi from 
Vaicc of Hope; Conversations with Alan Clements 
(p. 56), 1997 

"A model can'l hide anything from the eye 
of the camera. That's why when she's nol in front 
of a camera, she's preparing for when she is... For 
Ihe money she makes, (model) Sunny (Griffin) 
can'l afford nicks and cuts on her legs. Why 
shouldn't yours look great loo?' -from an adver- 
tisemenl for Lady Trac II razors from Gillette, in 
Ihe July 1974 issue of Sevenieen magazine (p.61 

"...I Ihink there must be a lot of insecurity in 
people who can only believe in dollar bills." -Ihe 
words of Burmese leader Aung San Suu Kyi from 
\bice of Hope: Conversations with Alan Ctemcnu 
(p. 29). 1997 

"If growing up is painful for the Southern 
Black gill, being aware of her displacement is (he 
rusi on Ihe raz^r that Ihtcal-ni; Ihe (hroal. Il is an 



unnecessary insult." -from I Know Why (he 
Caged Bird Sings (p. 83), by Maya Angclou, 1969 

"Ifcnewaralherquiet-lookinggirl whohadloUof 
personality on (he inside. It just didn't show— 
until she started using Frost &amp; Tip, ,, It's a kit con- 
taining eveiyihing you need to streak, frost, or tip 
you hair, with no hassle. ..She lightened lilllc 
bands of her hair, here, there, and everywhere — 
and wow! Even the busy young execs at her sum- 
mer job stopped to nolicet If you decide lo Iry 
Frost &amp; Tip yourself,,lhc nice. thing about ii 
is. you'can lighten as little or as much as you want. 
Feeling cjipcri mental 7' -from a Clairol adverlise- 
ment. in the July 1974 issue of Sevenieen maga- 
zine &lt;p, JB) 

"If you don't believe in what you are doing your 
aclions will lack credibility. However hard you 
try, inconsislcneies will appear" -Ihc wools of 
Burmese leader Aung San Suu Kyi from \feicc of 
Hope; Conversations with Alan Clements (p, 
159), 1997 

"Old age is really a disguise Ihat no one but the 
old themselves sec through. I feel eiactiy as I 
always did. as young inside as when I was Iwen- 
ly-one, but the outward shell conceals Ihc real 

that person deep down inside, under wrinkles and 
liver spou and all the horrors of decay I some- 
times think thai I feel things more intensely lhan 1 
used lo. not less. But I am so afraid of appealing 
ndiculous. People eipect setcnilj of the old. That 
is (he slcreolype, the mask we arc expected to put 
on. But how many old people are serene'/" -from 
As We Are Now, (p. 74-751 by May Sanun. 1973 



fa rrto 011)5 




HeY, f=RieNP. Hov/ 'Bout 

VJe Just r*£E ovea To Tue s^looN 
The L«eit on buy a Rdowd of 




Go vote on March 28th and 29th 

On the 28th vote in Kettler Hall basement 

On the 29th vote in Walb Union Fireside Lounge 



Editorial Board 



Todd llamm, 
Heidi Salibs. Managing Eduor 
Adam Taylor, Fruiurci Eduor 
Nathan Dielil, Sports Ediiar 
Gloria de Farii, Chief Rtponer 
Eric Tarr, Ednorial Canoonisi 
Dcddy Jong, Photo Eduor 
Kalhy Delagrai^c, Copt Ediior 
Doric Reynolds, Publiiher 



Contact Us! 



Editorial Policy 



ir. Suite 215, Walb 
Student Union. JIOl E Coliseum Blvd.. Fort 
Wayne, IN 46E05 



stupaper Shol mes.i pfw.edu 



Ttlepho 

Edilor48l-65W 
Publisher 481-6585 
Advenising:4Sl-6SS3 
Fui:4SI-6(M5 



Communicator. They do nol necessarily reflect the viei 
of IPFW. iu employees or iu student body. A column 
solely the opinion of its audior. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from i 
readen. Leoers (□ (lie Ediior and guesi columns must I 
signed, dated and accompanied by a cui 

All submusions made na e-mail j 
phone or in person. Submissions via it 
out Ihis information will tkh be published, eicqx under 



also requested. Addresses and phone numbers wdl never 
be publishcd- 

Submissions must be lypcwritlcn. 

The ediionil board of The Communicator reserves 

tlie nghl ID edit all submissions for length, grammar, style 

iddiess- and clarity. Leiiers deemed libelous by The 

ified by CommunKaior's cdiuxial boon) will dck be published 



M„....oo. Opinions ,..,,„„„__ ,.^^,, 

On campus resource profile and review: Multicultural Services 



WHAT: Acjufemie Depanmenl 
WHERE- Walft |[g 
PHONE 4816608,6911 



HOURS OF OPERATION: Monday 
through Thursday. 8 am -5 ptn. 
Fridays: 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

SERVICES AND BENEFITS TO 
STUDEFJTS: Counseling for ill Ua- 
denu IS available. v,illi a locus on lup- 
poning aiiociflle degree siudenll. 
Informauon an scholairhips. inlem- 
shipt, fellawshtpt. Tinonctal aid. 
cmploymcnl and volunleer opponuni- 



Opponunilics lo allend conler- 
eiKCi and uminan and develop lead- 
ership skills are also offered. The 
depanmem is dIso involved in a itu- 
deni peer c(iun&gt;eling outreach piogjam 
for middle and high school sludenli, 
and lelummg adults through Envision 
a Bright Fuluie. MCS olTers opponuni- 
lies to proinoic literacy in local cle- 
mcnrnry schools by reading lo second 



The Summer Youlh program pre- 
pares sludcnu for careers afler high 
school- The departmeni teis up study 
tables during fmal ciams. MCS 
employs a comprehensive, systematic 
method of tracking and following 
through on issues important lo 
Summer Bridge students' success 

SPECIAL FEATURES WHICH 
ENHANCE THE QUALFFY OF THE 
DEPARTMENT: "We go the extra 
mile," said Shirley Jones-Sewell. 
adviser/coordinator of support services 
in the depaxuncnt, "We have (inten- 
sive) counseling. We follow up on 
Students in Danger (SID program)." 

TTie depanment works with stu- 
dents to assess what areas of their lives 
may be causing problems in their slud- 
iej. and assists Ihem m resolving the 
matlerfs). "Students who are not eligi- 
ble for regular admission come in 
under Summer Bndge, at nsk," lones- 
Sev,ells sa^d. 



feedback lo the depani,,. 
dents in their classrai 
tracked by MCS juit u 
good job the student is d 
enjoy having the student 



lo that." J 



ould 4i least no 
laid. "1 » 



e ipjcc 



The Intenuuonal Unity and 
Friendship Banquet is scheduled for 
Saturday, April 7. The banquet is from 
6-9 p m. and mil be held m the Walb 
Ballroom. TTie evening will feature 

sine. Advance tickets arc SB for the 
general public. S5 for students. Call 
■(6034 for more infomtation. 

Summer Bridge begins June 24. 

■"^ " ler Youth Program. 



lo offer 
iffjirs 



focus 
horiion 



siilantships 
dents looking into inleiiulion 

programming for intcrnjiional %i 

could do these thingv We could vpen 
up to the greater campus tiimmunii&gt; 
they could have these crots-culiui 
eupcnences. Il would be nice if ll 
entire staff had furnishings to make 
look like a comfortable office, that 
would resemble the rest of the Stude 



. I i. 



[vinrd 



nanagement i 



n the 



NEEDS OF THE DEPARTMENT: 
Director Chris Patterson said, "We 
need to focus more on retention of stu- 
dents. We do an cicellent job out- 
reaching., .in the commlJnily. but we 
want to make jure we don't become a 
revolving door. My wish is lo have a 
fuH-lime person lo run the Students in 
Danger (SID) program. We need to pay 
attention lo the growing Asian- 
American population. It would be nice 
to have a staff person of Asian- 
Americin desccnl for comfort levels, 
lo have a stuilent come in and see." 

Another wish of Patterson is to 
expand Inlemalional Student Services 



INPITT FROM STUDENTS: Gerone 
Jones, a siiphamore majoring in 
Organisational Leadership and 
Supervision and student worker in 
MCS said. "It's a good place for 
minorities on campus to come and get 
help. For me personally, working here 
has been a good experience. We have a 
lot of different activities going on. 
Most people feel it's a good place. 
They know when they come lo this 
office they're gong to be served. 
They're treated well here," 

Jennifer David, a freshman who 
began as a Summer Bridge student 
said. ■The Director (Chris Patterson) is 
my menlor. They keep truck of me 
here — how school's going, how my 



the Summer Bndge pniiium It gives 
you in advantage— I definitely 
improved my study habiLs Ihtvmgh that 
program." 

EDITORIAI 1 .i\i\([ ■, , M.^ 

The ..ll ■■ -I ■ i,„j| 

Services pi..M.' iL, 

all students U-, tiMiln ir, r, , .n n^-, 
helpful and asiutc MCS ulleri j tjti- 
ely of educational programs llirough- 
oui the year and is oetively involved in 
outreach efforts, diversity mailers and 
multicultural muc&lt; The w.iy m nhich 
sludenls' neeJv .^nj iim,&lt;.-ir&gt;-, ,iie 
addressed hy ihi. .iIIkc i-. i,iiiiiriiL-nJ- 
able. MCS hj^ m.iJo ^ &gt;1,Ml-.i.-.kc m 
many livu and i-, hi:lij in lii^^li u-^&gt;jrd 
by many dudcnls jnd fjtullv 



Excellent Educators Series: 

Natalie Hyslopy Biology Department 






Natalie Hyslop. who is 
zomplcling her master's degree 
his semester at PFW. teaches 
^ience labs for Biology 100, 
llDand^O]. Hyslop isateach- 
ng flssislani who works under 
Dr. Bnice Kingsbury. Hyslop 
ingsbury have conducted 
search together over the last 
vo years on spatial ecology 
nd habitat use of copper 
'alersnakcs in a fragmenled 
mdscape. She plans lo go on 



Hyslop graduated from 
(he Umveisiiy of Georgia widi 
a BaLhclor of Science degree in 
Ecology, and worked in the 
professional sector before con- 
r education. In the 



ships provide excellent oppor- 
tunitiet for graduate students.' 
Hyslop said- "I still remember 
what it's like to be a student, 
because I am one.' 

While her work as a stu- 
dent is exemplary, even more 
notable is the case with which 
she leads her classes. As an 
instructor, Hyslop's strong 

clarity, breadth ant) depth of 
knowledge orkd perspective and 
relating abstract concepts to 
everyday life. She is able to 
make light of the more delicate, 



often face in biology 



expressed that because she is 
also a student, they feel freer to 
ask questions and make mis- 
takes. Others have stated that 
Hyslop's instniciion helped 
them understand what 






:s and the This 



are sciutiniicd very closely and 
scored accordingly She docs 
not play around with grading 
assignments or quiues, but is 
supportive and helpful so that 



textbook. Indeed, she i 
adept at explaining things 
clearly and presenting the top- 



I relevai 



., She 



}ubles 



;r of I 



ccpled ii 






the , 



'. after b 






I IPFW. she started 

; months 
later, her role expanded to 
include the responsibilities of 
teaching. "Teaching assisunl- 

Ediior i Sole: Articles included the 
Eictlltni Eduraiors Series rnay or may 
not han been ivriiien by members of The 
Commuiiicaior staff. Subrrtissions from 
STUDENTS are encouraged and wfl- 
\e underslanding ihai any 



usty. The purpoM 



lance or bearing on the subject. 
For example, in pig dissections, 
Hyslop uses humor to get 
through objections from stu- 
dents about the smell, the task 
and precision required. 



inds beside the 



ivity's 



follows through on areas of 
trouble and mokes sure that 
concepts have been made clear. 
Some of the students under her 
instruction far Biology 203 lib 
asked whether she was teach- 
ing the 204 lab, so they could 
sign up for her section. 'I've 
had students tell me they appre- 
ciate my style, .it's extremely 
flattering," Hyslop said. While 
her style is easy-going and like- 
able, the real respect for 
Hyslop's work is in the high 



bihlyat 

racy, make Hyslop's class an 
important ctpcrience in under- 
graduate education at IPFW. 

Her most recent research 
is being featured in a magazine 



was produc 
The Iclevii 



. in the 



i she r 



i for 



Zunently. 
Hyslop is deciding which 
school to attend for her doctor- 
al program. Her excitement for 
biology in general (and her- 
petology more specifically) arc 
widely evident, but no more so 
than her teaching ibili 
Hyslop's methods of instruc- 
tion are any indication of the 
future of higher education, we 
all have a lot to be thankful for. 



ind all cc 

le published miar 



one insirucior/professor Kith another, b 
rather to to hightighl and recognize 
teachers who make significant differenc 
m the lives of their students. As Such, ii 
articles will focus uliolly en the profes- 
sors being featured 



the teachers they praise. Any sludenls n 
would tike to contribute to this series 
should forward 
to salilulOltSbolmes.ipfn-.f 




Student Success Stories 



WHITEHOUSE AND PERDUN 
ELECIED FOR CLASS 2001 
REPRESENTATIVES 

The election of the Class of 2001 
representatives was held at a meeting an 
Feb. 12 by the Student Ambassador 
Council (SAC|. Each contender was 
given a short time to present his or her 
reasons for wanting to be the class rep- 
resentative. The Indiana University rep- 
tesentatue is Amy R. Whilehouse and 
the l&gt;urduc University representative is 
W. Daniel Perdun. They both gave an 
intcrcsung synapsis of their campus 



her how much fun 
i be. He also told 
: "dixjmed" her to 



father's side to go lo college- Being an 

positions of treasurer, risk manager, and 
panhellemc secretary in Pi Beta Ph\ 
soroniy for the past three years has been 
a big plus fur Amy Amy has also been 
on the IPSGA election board for two 



years These opportunities gav 






iking I 






trlhe 



through both a student organization and 
a sorority, being involved with what 
goes on at IPFW, and seeing how they 
all can have an impact on each other. 
Her hope is to be accepted to the SPEA 
graduate program at IPFW for the fall 
and begin working on her master's 
degree in Public Administration with a 
concentration in Public Policy Analysis, 

Dan is finishing a degree in math, 
ematics with a license to teach at the 
secondary level. He is currently student 
leaching at North Side High School. 
His decision to pursue a teaching degree 
came in his sophomore year after he 
decided to teach a Isl grade Junior 
Achievement class for an economics 
assignment as a business student. 

Not only did he gain confidence 
and overcame the fear of public speak- 
ing, he also enjoyed witnessing the light 
in the young students' eyes as (hey 
understood what was being laughL The 
First graders touched his heart when 
some of them asked for his phone num- 
ber to keep in touch and a few of the 
girls proposed to him! 

Dan his been very active while a 
student at IPFW and his involvement 
has included being in the National 
Student Exchange program, being a 
math leaching assistant, a Student 



Orientation Assistant, a Student 
Orientation E^cader, a peer advisor, and 
a Student Ambassador He will enjoy a 
few minutes of fame on stage; but. he 
also is very proud to be the representa- 
tive who will be symbolically accepting 
diploma for all of the graduating 



For people who can't 

see well, here are some 

things to look into. 






IPFW Purdue 



Both Amy and Dan 
their pride and appreciation o 
campus has to oHer students in and out 
of classes. They both agreed on one 
major issue which has helped them 
enjoy themselves as students here at 
IPFW both through opportunities and in 
making many friends and that is to get 
INVOLVED. 

Amy Mpressed her love for this 

involved gives you the opportunity to 
meet other people and the more people 
you know the more enjoyable your lime 
will be when you are on campus." 



The Highlights page of The 
Communicator is replacing the second 
of two (Dpinions pages which have run 
in the post. Highlights is a bridge 
between Opinions and Fcanues. as its 

articles on people arid departmenu at 
IPFW 

The Eicellent Educaum Series. Excellent Edi 
On-campus Profiles and Reviews tnd Deponmi 




Student Success Stories ire intended to submit most of their owti informauon. 

highlight people and things that happen as questions for the column are the 

an this campus. Hence, the name samikweekafterweek.forcvery ilepin- 

" Highlights." menL All remarks submitted by the There are SefUICeS and deviCeS 

Hi^lighis articles should tie con- departments are reviewed and edited by 

sideredaseiposiUons.ratherthaninvej- the managing editor. Opinions horn slu- triat Cafl help peOpIC make the 

bgauons. Students arc welcotne to send denis and editorial commcnlary are the _,..,, i .u i. ,_ 

remarks about teachers for the opinionsof student wTitersand theman. "^0" Ot the VISlOn Ihey have 

Senes. aging editor. Cal| for 3 free bOOklet: 







National 

Eye 

Institute 






1-877-LOW VISION (1-877-569-8474) 



March 15. 2001 



Features 



Museum of Art exhibits photography of Linda McCartney 



by Mis 
SteffV 



e Munmng is 



Frnm March 24 [hiough May 27 The Fori 
Wayne Mutoim o(An will cxhibil Ihc photogra- 
phy of Linda McCanncy and the gliu an of 
Willijm Monij. 

Linda McCinney'i caieer began m 1966 
when ihc became ihe Tint lurf phnlographei for 
Rnlling Slnnc. In her early years, ihc qualily ot 
her black and uhilc pholographi helped her land 
ptBiriom ai New York'i Fillmoie EasL She uem 
□n in her career 10 photograph rockert such as 
Jimi Hendrix, The Rolling Siones and Tbe Who. 

McCartney 'i images have been on display 
in over nrty pllcriei ihroughoui the world. In 
* " \ her cspluied moments have been pub- 



lished imecnaiionally m vacioiu magazines and 

Gallery. Cily Mus- 
Baih. 

Women in photography choie McCartney as 
Ihc 1987 tecipieni of Ihe U.S. Woman 
Phologiapher of Ihe Year, Linda McCartney's 
Sixties -Portrail of an Era consists oF a scries of 
musicians and music that appeared throughout Ihc 

Morns has tpcnt 23 years blowing glass into 
rigures such ai ravens, deer he;id.( and jars. Even 



ly to conceal ihe true 
making it seem as if 
they're made of stone, u-ood or leather. Kis cre- 
ations have been said to lellcct themes of myth, 
archaeology and the animal. Moms' ethibil. 
Myth. Ob;ecl and the Aninul is a reminder of 
humans' primitive beginnings, shaped by ihe 
forces of nature and myth. 

Sculpiuies designed by Moms have 
appeared m museums throughout ihe world such 
as New inland. Japan and London. 

On Friday. March 23. a reception open lo 
museum members and their guests will begin at 
6.30 p.m. DJ Tony Olin will provide music from 
the 60's and vegetarian dishes from McCartney's 
cookbook wilt be served. The cost is SE for muse- 
um memben and SIO for their guests. 
Reservations can be made by caNing 422-6467 
eti. 342 or via e-mail stuarTlSrwmoa.org. 

Throughout the entire nin of the eihibits. a 
29-minulc documentary on Moms will be shown 
continuously in the atnum. Every Thursday ihe 
museum will eilend ils hours lo 9 p.m. During Ihe 
cilended hours, al 5:30 p.m.. a 49-minule docu- 
mentary on McCartney will air. Her documenury 
will also appear every Saturday al 12:30 p.m. 

There are several events thai will occur in 
conjunction with the ethibiis. during dieir stay. 
Firlt of all, on March 28, at 12:15 p.m.. Curator 
of Exhibitions, Robert F. Schroeder. will give a 
gallery talk about Morris' woik. Then on March 



Anderson University, 
present a slide show and a 
gallery talk about Morris' 
pieces and ihe art of glass- 
Local Musician. David 
Todoran will perform sixties 
music from 1 to 9 p.m. on 
Apnl 12. Next, A Hard Days 
Night, a film related lo 
McCartney's exhibit will run 
on April 20. The cost is S6 lo 
non- museum membeis. 

April 27. James Yood. 
professor of an theory and cnt- 

Universily, present the lecture 
eniilled, William Moms. 
Ar^mal Logic a( 7 p m. 

May 10 at 7 p.m. will 
bnng Katrina Boedckcr. assis- 







of r 



IPFW, who will lead a presentation and a discus- 
sion about how music represenu the past and 
symbolizes the present. 

The final evcnl, glassblowing demonstra- 
tions, will be conducted on May IS from 5 lo 8 
p.m. Classes will be instructed by Ed Francis, a 
glass anist from Layfelle. The class is S6 for ron- 



Pnola cBiiiresy fan W6yns AluSDum olAit 
Bluesman Jimi Henijnx is one ol Ihe many music ligures cap- 
lured in Linda McCartney's pliotography, which will t&gt;e shown 
al Ihe Fori Wayns Museum ol Art Irom March 2d to May 26, 

museum memben and free for members. Music 
will be perfoimcd by Shelly Dixon and Rick 
Callcndar, Club Soda will be catering food. For 
more detailed information one can call Ihe muse- 
um al 422-46)7 or visit th its webpage si 
h tl p://w w w, f w moa org. 



Civil War Preservation Trust identifies nation's ten most 
endangered historic battlefields 



WASHINGTON- The Civil War 
Preservation Trust (C\VPT) unveiled an inves- 
ligalivc report Tuesday on Ihe status ot Ihe 
nation's historic battlegraunds. 

The lepon. entitled "America's Most 
Endangered Battlefields.' identifies the 10 mosi 
threalcned Civil War sites in Ihe United Slates 
and what can be done to rescue them. 

''America's battlefields are disappearing at 
on alarming pace," remarked CWPT President 
James Lighthizcr. 

"Wlhoul swift and decisive action, many of 
the sites listed in our report will be little moie 
than a memory within a few years.' 

The sites targeted in the report range from 
among the most famous to the nearly forgallcn. 
But all have one critical fealure in common-each 
one or pari of one is in danger of being lost for- 



immcdiacy of cun-ent threats. In addition, sever- 
al noted hislonans and picsctvationists partici- 
palcd in the selection process "With so many 
Civil War sues under siege from urban sprawl, 
we easily could have sejccted a hundred," 
Lighthizer noted. 

The 10 battlerields cited by CWPT are as 
follows: Allaloona, Ga.: Brice's Cross Roads. 
Miss.; Fort Fisher, N.C.; Gettysburg. Pa.; 
Harpers Ferry, W.Va,; Loudoun Valley, Va.; 

Mansfield. La.; Raymond. Miss,; Sloncs River, house development can 
Tenn. and Ihc Wilderness. Va. The repoil also built practically anywhi 
identifies IS vitally important battlefields that An historic baltleneld 
did not make the final 10. naL* 

CWPT has listed these batllcriclds as 
endangered because of several reasons. Many of 
the sites are al risk of being destroyed by urban 
development Other sites face destruction from 

When asked why saving these sites is 
important. Lighthizer was quick to respond; 
These battlefields are the last tangible reminders 
of sacrifices mode by those who wore the blue 
I gray. When we destroy the land, we dcilroy 



ihei 






Lighthizcr also reminded 
audience about the fina 
benefits of battlcf 

"Although balllcfleldi 






CWPT is Ihe largest 
nonprofit battlefield preser- 
vation organizalion in Ihe 
United Slates. Ils mission is 
to preserve our nation's 
endangered Civil War battle- 
fields and Id promote appre- 
ciation of these hallowed 
grounds through education 
and heritage tourism. 




Pholo courtesy w\ 
The tiaille sile at GellysDuig, Penn., commemorated by the 
Virginia Memorial on Seminary Ridge, is listed as one ol Ihe 
most endangered battlefields. 



Winter Community Concert 
features Hoist, Haydn 



The IPFW department of Music will present 
the IPFW Community Orchestra Winler Concert 
on Monday, Maich 19, al 7:30 p.m. in Neff 



The Community Orchestra showcases a 
combination of both students and community 
members who enjoy performing in an orchestra. 

The Orchestra, which is conducted by 
David Cooke, the principal trombonisl for the 
Fort Wayne Philhaimonic, is comprised of SO 
members, 20 of wham ore students and the rest 
are communily members. 



The firslhalf of the program will include "A 
Sumersel Rhapsody," Opus 21 by Guslav Holsi, 
"Irish Tune from County Derry" by Percy 
Aldridge Grainger and "Suite in E-Flat" by 
Guslav HoUl 

The evening will conclude with "Symphony 
No- l(M in D Major" by Frani Josef Haydn. 

Admission to die concert is free lo IPFW 
students with ID, S3 adults, S2 seniors and SI all 
other students. 

FoT more information call Ihe department of 
Musical 219-481-6714. 

Information courtesy of Susan Damer, Marketing 
and Public Relations Specialist for the School of 
Visual and Perfoiming Arts. 



^ 



JE 



i^ 



Get Vour Degree Tuition Free 



100% FREE STATE COLLEGE TUITION 

Up to S8000." CASH Bonus 

Plus 
Montgomery GI Bill 
Paid Techniiral Training and Expericm 
Aucnd School Full Time/Work Part-l 

Career DirccUoti and Advancemcnl 
Part-time Employmcnt/Exira SS 
Available to Veterans also 

Much. Much MORE 






In the Hrmy national Guard VOU CHIII 

Huntington 



Fort Wayne (North) 
(219) 490-2764 
(219) 490-1506 

Fort Wayne (South) 
(219) 459-7771 
(219) 432-7724 



Blufflon 
(219) 824-5630 
Angola 
(219) 665-2535 



(219) 356-0518 
(219) 269-4520 



(%%nibiis c^ctute (Series 




(Mendy 
Wasserstein 



"A Life in the Theatre" 

Seen by many as the voice of a generation, playwright 

Wendy Wasserstein has used her an to chronicle the staggering 

social changes that have ttansformed modern life, 

7:30 p.ni.- Monday, March 19, 2001 
IPFW Walb Student Union Ballroom 

Free public lecture 

Free parking in the garages and B lots 

Cosponsored by the Dr. Harry W. Salon Foundation 
and the Fort ^yne Jewish Federation. 



=* IPFW 



American Sign Language interpnter pmvided upon request. 
Lecture funded by a p-ant from ibeEngfi^. Bonier. 

MUcbellFoimdaSion 
Media sponsors: WBNL 891 and NeusCbaime! 1$. 



ch 15. 2001 



Features 



Irish patriot Michael Cohins commemorated in film release 



1 office 



I Dublin, ludi 



ngic 



ucck 



Ai everyone is undoubiedly awme. Sl. 
P^Uick'i Day ii coming up and everybody is 
ihinking Inih for the weekend. Pjnies and hang- 
over) 3IC being planrted ind eveiydrM it Kaich- 
ing for [hal tiille piece of green ihal will keep 
Ihem &lt;rcim wiking up with uMe ikin ihc nedday. 

By Fiidjiy and Saturday, ihe stereoiypical 
(fish lymbolj will pop up all over rown a[ block 
panics, house pames, icsUurarMs and bari. One 
Ihing thai likely won'l pop up. however, is any- 
ihing lo do wiih 20ih cemury Irish hisioiy. As 
anyone can lell you. iheie it liUlc lo celebrate 
from thai century in Ireland at it wu filled with 
war. intrigue and senielesj violence via (errarisl 

Hie early hislory of ihcse wan fought 
between the Briiith and the Irish, including the 
birth of the Insh Republican Army, is captured in 
the 1996 Wamcr Brothers film "Michael Collini,* 
starring Liam Neeson. Julia RoberU. Aidan 
Quinn and Alan Rickman. 

Detailing Ihc events leading to the signing 
of Ihc 1921 peace treaty thai divided Ireland into 
two parts. 'Michael Collins' is a romantic, yel 
tragic dcpiclionofthe Irish side ol the war. 

The movie begins with Ihc Easter Rising in 
I&lt;I16 when a teacher and a group of odieis seize 



of fighting beiaeen the rebels and the fli 
troops. The movie comes in nghl ai the surrender was the lellmg point of i! 
of the rebel forces, among them Collins and Irish with the cinema lographi 
Republic President Eamonn De Valna. and the musical score, boih li 
eiecutions and impnsonmenti that followed die were nominated for / 
uprising. Collins and fnend Hany Boland are 
soon released and begin planning a guerrilla war 
against the forces tha! imprisoned them, recruit- 
ing people ihcy know from Dublin. Thus begins 
the Irish Republican Army, or the IRA as it is 



Tlico 



:&gt;nly ki 

Most of the icuon is centered on the confliei 
between the Bnush and ihe Irish revolutionaries 
working toward independence. There is a greal 
deal ofsideco^^ic^ too, though Throughout the 
movie. Neeson, who plays Collins, and Rickman, 
who plays De Valera, oflen clash over the way 
they believe independence should be gained, how 
the war should be fought and ultimately, how the 
peace should be settled. A conflict also develops 
between Collins and Boland (played by Quinn) 
after they both fall in love with Kitty Kieman 
(played by Roberts). Their common love for 
Kieman severely strains the friendship between 
Collins and Boland. uking them from best 
friends to political rivals. 

There are many good qualities to this movie. 
The acting was one good pan. a.( I felt all of the 
cast did a stellar job, with notable perfo 
by Neeson and Rickman. Also, unlike 
moMes based upon historical events, thii 



if you could call it a 
downside, is thai it focuses more 
on Ihe personal side of what tmn- 
spiied, rather than Ihc historical 
side. A lot of outside readme is 
required to gel a handle ni 



signilica 



occurs in Ihe m 

pie, the only significj 



ising 5 



c V.^' 



1 ih^ 




is thai it shows die caplur 
of Collins. Boland and De Valera 
and provides the reasoning for 
fighting a guerrilla war There I 
was so much more (o it than that, f 

Though Uie movie could p^oio cmirlos/ ww.cwningmo^os com 

dennitely not be us&lt;|d as a pn- Collirts. lell played by Liam Neeson, sizes up his enemies 
mary soun:e fo, ^•f'o'yj^ no ^,^ ^,^3^ q^,^„ 



My could), 'Michael 
Collins' docs provide a look at early 20lh centu- 
ry Irish history Ihrough Ihe eyes of one of iis main 
participants. It allows viewers to Witness the per- 
sonal struggles involved in the formation of the 



1921 peace treaty that split Irclond in half, bring- 
ing hiiioiy to life, so in speak. "Michael Collins" 
would make on occlleni rcnial for your Si, 
Patrick's Day weekend. 



'3000 Miles' sinks Costner's career even further 



Kun HussctI and Kevin Coslner play iwo 
former cell mates who link up lo pull off the rob- 
bery ofa hfciime in "3.000 Milts 10 Graceland." 

STORYLINE: 

Michael (Russell) bos just gotten out of Joil 
and he meets up with Murphy (Coslner) and they 
soon join the ihousands of other Elvis look-alikes 
in Las Vegas who are there for Iniemalional Elvis 
Week. Michael and Murphy organize iheir gang 
and lob Ihc Riviela Hotel Soon enough, howev- 
er. Murphy tries 10 double-cross his compadrcs 
and &gt;a Michael takes the loot and hightails it with 



Muiphy m hoi pursuit. Added to the mi n is a viva- 
cious Counney Cox who plays Cybil, Michael's 
love inieiest. With the help of her son. Cox's 
character manages to distract Michael just enough 
10 moke things interesting. 

ACTING: 

Coslner had Ihe chance to play Ihe 'good 
guy" role bul he chose 10 play Murphy and carried 
iloff well. Although we don't gel much of back- 
ground on his life, or on any of Ihe characters' 
lives for that matter, he still provides a very good 
opposite role for Russell, For his pan. Russell 
does a fair Job. intertwining squinting constantly 
and looking frustrated. In all fairness though, he 
does a decent job and manages 10 hold up his end, 
Coii plays the "single malhcr scrounging Tor a liv- 
ing' role very well and is the complete antithesis 



to her "Fricndi' role with a very upbcal and for- Thai said, his background in music videos is clear 

ward ponrayal of her characlcr. Christian Slater, with several very grooving fight scenes wiih llic 

David Arquettc. Howie Long and Kevin Pollack soundtrack playing loudly and oficn That also 

are a few of the familiar faces scaltcred through- happens to be one of Ihc movie's good puinls. 

out the movie: however, none of their characters mostly because the urban rock lone mLv very well 

are very well developed, providing limited with mc and probably will wilh mosi of the film's 

laughs. likely patrons. 



DIRECTING: 



FINAL TAKE: 



From Ihe beginning scene of two scorpions Unless you're a ■.. 

fighting one begins to doubl ihal (he movie will jusi happen 10 thirl, il 

be any good. Ten minutes later. Ihc scorpions are movie involving scicr.i 

gone and the test of the film is spent trying to con- compuler-generated m 

vince you that it really was worth the time lo seems like a cool mu\i 

come see this. Since "3000 Miles" is one of his for something wonhwh 

first movies. Demian Lichtcnslein is alloived a cup of hot chocolate, 
few screw-ups, ll just so happens that he uses all 
of them up in the first 20 seconds of Ihe movie. 




Writers needed to cover 

Student Government 

meetings and events. 

*Applicants must not be affiliated with 

Student Government. 

* News^vriting experience a plus, but not 

necessary. Will train. 

** This is an excellent starting point for student 

writers, which may lead to a paid position. 



March 15, 2001 

Spring Break 
in review 



Jinb Sandcrt 

II killionlSitiMnpu 
venui Penn Sule 

JrrrPldk 

31 Ulrson61 allempu 
ind a Alb hilling 
percenugeina win 
over Loy oil -Chicago 

Mall ZlMcmkl 

25 killiond7altenipu 

venui Loyola-Chicago 

Rhjcn Statty 

Loyd1.i-CI)lca(|(i 



Upcomln i ; Events 



Mcn'is Vnlltyhnll 

)/[? Lewis ® Memoriil 



free wilh sludent ED) 



Scoreboard 



Men's Vollcyhiitt 
3/2 Pcnn Siwe L 1-3 
3/3 LoyotB-Chicago W 3-2 
3/8 Long Beach LO-3 
3J9 SanU Dubara L i-3 



aivay games at 
Lakeland. Fla) 
3/3 Florida Soulhtm 

Ll-lS 
3/S Florida Southern 

L6-10 
3/6 Tampa L 1-7 
3/7 Ecktril W3-I 
3/7 Eckcrd L 1-4 
3/8 Si. Leo 

L6-7(l0mnlngsl 
3/13 Marlar) College 

L2-7 

Soflhall 

■ mcs ® Weil Florida! 
3/5 Lakeland C-C. W 9-3 
3/5 Ohio Dominican L 2- 

1 
3/6 Maiuneld Univeniiy 

LO-3 
3/6 Beihel College W 2-0 
3/7 William Penn College 

LO-7 
3/7 Belhel College L 2-8 
3/8 Vilerbo Univetsily 

Ll-S 

/e Univeisnyof W«i 

Florida L 0-g 

Inlramurnl Rcsulls 



TlicTnjPilincrs 4- 

Made Man 3- 

Fighling Xanlhomai 3- 

Cash Money 2- 

Socccr Team 1 ■ 
Tarheels 

HIph Scnrtrs 

Paul HofTmnn. 

TheTruPilmer^, 

22.0 ppg 
Craig Lenwell, 

LuvPu&amp;has, 21.0 ppg 
Chris Gcrberi, 

Made Man. 17,0 ppg 
Chris Gisslen. 

Made Man. 17.0 ppg 
David Cloud. 

e Man. 16. 5 ppg 



0-3 



Sports 

^■^ The Communicalor Pa 

NCAA Final Four Tournament underway 



In ihe firjt NCAA Final Four 
Toumamenl lo boasi 65 (eami. Ihii year's 
loumey ma(ch-ups mil be u inreiesring 
as the y come. 

Heie in Big 10 country, teven orihe 
confereiKe's II schools made the Big 
DarKC. (he lowest pulling in a seven seed 
The tute of Indiana was repicsented by 
Indiana University, a four seed in the 
West: Noire Dame, a sin seed and BuLler. 
a 10 seed in Ihe Midwest uid Indiana 
State, a 13 seed in the South. 

1 few predictions as to how 



Tenneuee &lt;8) will wm iheir firil round 

Syracuse (5) will be surprised by 
Hawaii (I2(. bul Hawaii will eventually 
lose to Kansas (4). 

Indiana's own Notre Dame (6) will 
win a hard fought banle againsi Xavief 
I U. but will lose a squeaker to Ole Miss 
3) 

Butler 110) will lose Iheii first mund 
fame lo Wake F«resl 17). bol Aniona (2) 
^ily walk by ils iwo opponents to 
inks among ihc Sueet 16. 



1 getting by 






Is of II 



will go to produce Ihe sweet 16. 



Illinois (1) will breeM by ils two 
opponents after tokmg on the winner of 
(he Nonhweslem Slalc/Winlhrop game. 



Fans wanted: 



gain 

South 

Michigan State (I) will have a cake- 
walk against Alabama Suie ( 16), but will 
win 1 nail-biter againsi Cal (Sl. Indiana 
Slate (13) will bow out at (he firrl round 
to Oklahoma (4), who in mm will take 
out Conuga (12). who will pull an upset 
on Virginia (5). 

Texas (6) will trounce over Temple 
(11), bui will be trounced by Forida (3). 

North Carolina (2). through all their 
season loils. will place a very clcae game 



Duke (I) wins wiih two blowouts 
Okcr Monmouth 1 16) and Missouri 19) lo 
show why they finished ibe season as 

Ohio State (5) will again pull oul all 
Ihe Slops, toping both Utah Stale (121 and 
UCLA (4). 

. Oklahoma Stale (II) will pull the 
biggest upset of the opening round, 
downing USC (6). but will bow oul as 
Boston College (3| shows [heir stuff. 

Iowa (7) will regain injured star and 
former DeKatb standout Luke Reckcr, 
reluming lo Iheir form of si» weeks ago 
to knock off Creighton (10). Iowa will 
also be able to hold off the charge by a 
very good Kentucky (2) team. 

West 

Stanford (1) will blow out NC- 
Grccnsboro (16) and The Cardinal will 



Georgia Teeh (81, 

Indiana (4) and Interim Head Coach 
Mike Davis will get their first real lesi in 
(he post-Knighl era and will be looking 
very good. Look foe ihc Hooslcn to 
knock olT Kent Slate 1 131 and also win a 
squcakei againsi Cinncy (S), 

Wisconsin (6) wnll have its dream 
upsci in anolhci irujor fml round upset to 
Georgia Stale (II), who will iniumdrop 
a blownut lo Maryland (3). 

Iowa Slate (2) has lost some 
blowouts ihis season, but don't took f(t 
ihcm 10 drop any big games in the post- 
season. Look for (he Cyclones to easily 
knock off Hampton (15) and Arkansas 
(7) 

A tournament unlike any other, this 
year's bracket painngs provide lots of 
interesting match-ups as the Big Ten 
again looks lo send two teams to the Final 
Four wilh (wo No. I seeds, solidifying 
the Big Ten once again as one of the 
nation's best baskclball conference. 









Fans warned: For a 



petiti. 



'. playing 

We need lo help the athletes 
wlio represent us by supponing 
them in all spons. Fans are not sim- 
ply people who root for their 
favorile leam-they are so much 



I enjoy athletic wearing nothing but boxers and has 



feats. Loud voice for yelling at ofTi- 
cinls is preferred, bul not necessary, wl 
Knowledge of spons is also not nee- te; 
essary, however, passion lo walch 

your peers perform well ^,. — 

is a must. /' SpOltS 

This lasi week (the j-i„_,„„„j„„, l ^pike It' 

week before spring ^Commentary ; ,|^j. ,n 



of his body painted I 
:. It's about supporting your 
whetherlhey are25-0or(i-2S 



break, so it's amazing I 
lememberany oflhis I am 
t went around campus a 
people what they thought ii 



fumble or missed 
about going 
from of the 



thai, for your firsi dale, you would 
really love lo go to Ihe game 
(Ladies, if you like a guy this is a 
gem.). 

Ifs about going to a bar 20 
years from now io watch your 
beloved alma malcr play and hiEgin 
lo cheer with some guy who turns 
out 10 be your former arch enemy in 

It's about making the NCAA 
Toumamenl for the flrsI time. It's 
about watching the best athlete ever 
to play for your school go in the last 
round of the draft. 

It's aboui driving four hours to 
watch Ihe (earn lose by 20 and (hen 
turning around and driving four 



imgl. 



1 fan I I 



eived s 



answers fram students ranging from 
*a person who roots for iheir 
favorite team' to 'something that 
blows air." Apparently some stu- 
dents didn't know ' 



ESPN earner: 
re occasion they have c&lt; 
&gt;u( school to broadcast a 
s about having the place 

It's about running i 



s back s 






:e by 35. 






I'm here to lell you ihi 
means so much more than \ 
Wilh Ihe NCAA Tournament c 



) the 

pulled the upset of the season, bul 
il's more about being there when 
iports they lose by 25. It's about pulling 
your head into your hands after a 
lough loss and when you finally can 
look up again, everyone's gone, 

Il's about yelling at every 
umpire, ref. Judge or opposing 
team, just so Ihcy know which side 
you're on. It's about taking your last 
five bucks and buying a program so 
thai you can keep 



walch 



were supposed 

Il's about tne L'ameion 
Crazies, the Orange Crush, (he 
Izzone and the Hoosier Hystcricols 
(those who know college basket- 
ball, ihai was for you). It's about 
peanut shells on ihe bleachers. Coke 
making your shoes slick and (he 
First baseman spilling while he is al 

Il's about dirl, grass and 
hardwood courts, 

Bul mostly it's about having 
the mosi fun possible while we put 
in out lime here at our college. The 
university wo chose, the university 









-Go 



Ifs 



1 guy 



Baseball drops home opener 



Fehru: 



Opening the 



Ik of nin&lt; 



IPFW baseball 

Iheir home opener on Tuesday, 

March 13, against Marian College. 

The Dons came out strong, 
playing a scoreless first three 
innings, led by the pitching of 
Senior Jason Collins. 

The Dons allowed two runs in 
the founh, and another in the fifth lo 
fall behind 0-3, Afler freshman 
Tony Wilson came in relief in the 
fifth, he allowed another two runs 
n the 



Dons were now facing a 0-5 dcficil 
The bottom of the sixlh 
showed promise for the Dons, as 
freshman Josh Byers and junior 
Nate Hoggali scored on RBIs by 
Hoggall and freshman Mark 
Simanski to bring Ihe gome within 
teach al 2-5, 

Top of Ihe seventh inning saw 
aclion by freshman Ben Slein. who 
allowed two nins on two walks and 



one hil. Senior Steve Bulcher came ing 
10 the mound with a 2-7 deficii. Indii 
Bulcher closed out the inning and agaii 
Ihc game, facing five bailers and towi 
picking up a strike out. Fran 

IPFW was unable to convert in 
Ihe bottom of the seventh, and 
dropped ihe game, 2-7. The Dons 
were led in hilling by Shannon 
Kimmcl, who went 2-3 for Ihe 
game. Collins had 7 strike outs, and 
allowed five hits in 4.2 innings of 

The Dons relum to aclion on 
their home field on March 20. host- 



Men's volleyball 
splits pair 
of matches 



Playing all mad games over the course of a month 
without a home game can at times be frustrating. The 
IPFW men's volleyball team played seven away match- 
es throughout February without hosting a home malch 
since the season openers on January 12 and 13, 

The Dons hosted a pair of home games over Spring 
Break in playing Penn State and Loyola. Chicago on 
March 2 and 3, respeclively. 

The Dons played Penn Slate tough, but ended up 
losing (he malch 1-3 The Dons dropped (he ma(i;h 25- 
30, 27-30, 30-26, 26-30. Junior Josh Sanders lead in Ihe 
attack lor the Dons, hilling .444 wilh 11 kills on IS 
attempts. Junior Jeff Ptak had 22 kills on 65 atlcmpls for 
the Dons. Rhyen Staley had 49 assists. 

Playing much bcllcr againsi Loyola -Chicago, the 
Dons were dropped (he flrsl (wo games, 28-30 and 24- 
30. Playing a close third game, the Dons were able 10 
avoid a loss, and knock olf Loyola-Chicago 30-27. 

Entenng the fonhgnmelryingtoeven up the malch 
at 2 games apiece, ihc Dons again held olf a charge by 
Loyola -Chicago to lake (he game 28-30. 

Unifer ihe new rules instantiated by the NCAA. Ifa 
match is to go into the fidh game. i( will be fust team to 
15. win by two. instead of the usual 30. In this fifth 
game, the IPFW returned to its championship form, post- 
ing an impressive hilling accuracy of .381. and were able 
to ou lias I Loyola -Chic a go. 17-15, 



Qde. with 
1 p.m. and 


for a hilling percentage of .426. Matt Zbyszewsk 
also a shinning star for Ihe Dons, achieving 25 kil 
47 altempis and boasting a 319 hilling pciceniagc 
The Dons will play their annual match in 
Memorial Coliseum this weekend, taking on b 


neelmg cross- 
ly of Saint 


University at 3 p m on Saturday. March 17 Admi 
10 this game is free wilh a valid Studenl ID. 




SlO/hr (3UARAHTEED 

Work on campus F/T or 

P/T (Of as linie as 5-10 

hrsAvk, or as many as 40 

hrg/wk. Be your own boss. 

Create your O'^n schedule. 

LimitetJ posiiions, 

I: 1-a0O-aO8-7442&gt;;e0 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



I United Art and Educatton(J 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



JOIN OUR WAREHOUSE TEAM S WORK IN A FRIENDLY ENVIRONMENT. 

■ Work part-time new/full-time in the summer 

■ Duties inelude order filling fincludes some lifiht liftir&gt;5 up to soitis) 

■ Starting at iTiO 



Contact Marie or Tom: 

(219) 478-1121 Monday-Friday 



f^KJnitedc?!) 

I Art and Education \\ 
44l3DtlB»R*iJ,B)rtV/i^«, IN 



The Communicator 

is looking for a 
NEWS EDITOR. 



This paid position is a 

great way to get involved J 

on campus and learn 

about IPFW. 



Please stop by 
Walb 215 
to apply. 



