Indiana Universit' 



Purdue University • Fort Wayne 



Wednesday. March 2, 2005 




INSIDE: 



End of Simon Era 

March 5 marks last game for IPFW 
basketball star David Simon. 
PAGE B1 



Winning the 'Visa Lottery' 

A Sudanese refugee comes to 
America and attends college, 
leaving hardship behind. PAGE A3 



ATOR 



The Queen of Retroviue 

Rose Hille, owner of vintage 
clothing store Retroactive, 
"suits" the needs of her 
customers. PAGE A4 



Volume 35, Issue 22 



1 2 Pages, 2 Sections, Free 



THIS WEEK ► 



I IPFWsb 



:h of Follett's 

tsunami relief fund. Page A 

l While Edwards Pi 
up for *Ttie Laramie Pre 
play, a Kansas church p: 
protest. Page A1 



t Cheap and easy options for 



■ Men's Basketball loses to Valpo, 
home. Page B2 

■ In "Off the Court* this week, Dan 
Vance talks to Men's Basketball 
player Peter Campbell. Page B4 

i.i..n,i..i.)iiiM.i 



'My responsibility' 

Campus Hope Center offers choices, "education" for unplanned pregnancy 
By David C. Hunter 



Late one Sunday evening, about 9 
months ago, Christina Maurer sat in he 
thinking. She had a decisk 



Before that day, she hadn't seriously 
considered issues like parenthood, adop- 
tion or abortion. Speaking now, she can't 
tell exactly how she felt back then. 

"I didn't think about it that much. I 
don't, I can't recall— that was a long time 
ago. I can't remember," said the 18-year- 
old IPFW freshmen. 

Monday morning, she n 
siontotaikti 

Enter tl 
IPFW. Heidi Wheeler is 
advocate For the student organization, 
and she sees many girls like Christina. 

"They come in with crisis preg- 
nancy, they have a relationship with a 
young man. ..and all of sudden they've 
caught themselves in a crisis, they don't 
know what to do," Wheeler said. "People 
around them are changing, they're 
changing inside, physically, emotionally, 
mentally, all types of things are going on, 
and where we come in is we help them 
through theses changes — we sit and 

the Campus Hope Center Is a 
student organization working out of the 
IPFW Health and Wellness Center, on the 
second floor of Walb Union across from 
Campus Ministry. 

The center offers free pregnancy 
testing, counseling, education and medi- 
cal and community referrals, including 
referrals to A Hope Center, a companion 
organization housed on Lake Avenue. 

Christina came in that Monday and 

confirmed she was pregnant. Rosan Ma- 
trisciano, an advisor for the center, gave 

Christina some brochures with informa- 
tion about her options. 







dthe 



by Kelly Royal / kroyal@ipfwcammunlcator.org 



CHOICES: Hope Center president Lauren Brace (LEFT), advocate 
trainee Elizabeth Brady (CENTER), and student advisor Rosan 
Matrisciano (RIGHT) give advice to students making tough decisions. 

asks Christina. Christina quickly Indi- 
cates that she did not. 

"Do you feel that we gave equal 
amounts of information on each of your 
three choices?" says Rosan. 

"Yes," says Christina. " Yes, I was 
thinking abortion, anil then I started 
reading the brochures, and I was think- 
ing.. .the pain. ..Abort ion, it can ruin your 
insides. Ami it's... dangerous," she said. 

"Until you research (abortion) your- 
self, you don't really know, and so we give 
them thai understanding." says Heidi. 

The brochure Christina is talking 
about is called "Before You Decide: An 
Abortion Education Resource." Inside is 
information about pregnancy, photos of 
the stages of the development of a fetus, 

► HOPE CENTER: Page A2 



The Communicator sat down with 
Heidi, Sheila, Rosan and Christina for a 
simultaneous interview. 

"When we first started working 
together. Christina seemed a little bit 
apprehensive, but that's understandable, 
because it was like a new relationship 
between the two of us," Shiela says. 

"It was different after I talked to 
Rosan," says Christina, "'cause I was 
debating on which one, and yeah, and 
after awhile.. .it was like 1 have to (have 
the child), 'cause like, who's going to do 
my responsibility?" 

"Did you feel pressured at any lime 
when you were meeting with us?" Rosan 



'Laramie' to 
be performed, 
fundamentalist 
church reacts 



Phelps and church lawyer. "And 
the heart of the message is that 
there is a god, there is a stan- 
dard, a day of judgment, a hell 



'The Laramie Project," a 
theater piece in die form of a 
documentary, will be coming to 
Fort Wayne this March. The proj- 
ect will take place from March 10 
to 13 at the Lincoln Museum on 
East Berry Street and will be put 
on by Edwards Productions. 

Written by Moises 
Kaufman, die production ex- 
presses the details surrounding 
the 1998 fatal attack of Matthew 
Shepard, a gay Wyoming Univer- 
sity student Shepard was beaten 
to death in Laramie, Wyoming. 

But, while Edwards Pro- 
ductions prepares for the per- 



1 lirector Hre-nt Blalock not- 
ed that 
Edwards 




of t 



. The i 



cated in Topeka, Kansas and led 
by Fred Phelps is home to many 
anti-gay activists who will picket 
the play that they see as contro- 
versial. 

"We stand peacefully on 
the public sidewalk and 



curity. In 
addition, the Fort Wayne Police 
Department will be available if 
additional assistance is needed. 
The protesting group, 
which Phelps-Roper says con- 
tains upwards of 60 people, 
sends 10 to 15 to each protest. 
They have been protesting for 
14 years and plan to picket 



► PROTESTERS: Page A7 



Bookstore contributes $7k 
to tsunami relief aid through 
nationwide Follett's program 

■ IPFW's Follett's, raised $6,995 to donate to victirhs of Dec. 26 disaster 



By Nichole Hacha-Thomas 



When relief was tailed lor alter the tsunami 
disaster, IPFW rose to the challenge. 

Together with Follett's Higher Hlucaiinn 
Group, students, staff and faculty were able In 
raise Sh.'l'iS to donate to the survivors of the tsu- 

After the Dec. 26 tsunami ravaged areas of 
South Asia and East Africa, there were many calls 
for donations from various organizations. 

"A lot of people wanted to donate money in 
the relief effort, hut were unsure about where to 
do so," Follett's Vice President of Campus Rela- 
tions Cliff Euwait said. 

A marketing director came up with the idea 
to implement a company- wide donation system. 
i the marketing 
put signs up in 
l-wideandask for $1.00 don a- 



their purchase. Students who wanted to donate 
more than SI .00 were able to do so. 

"This was a hassle-free way of donating, 
and people know the money goes directly to the 
isiinami eiuirns." Inwart said. 

Along with the IPFW bookstores cnniribu- 
lion, Follett's raised $I7"&gt;.WHI nation-wide. The 
money raised was presented to the Chicago oflu e 



" said Jeri Rusk, Financial De- 
velopment Officer for Hed Cross, 'first and fore- 
most, the money will be used for fond disirihu- 
lion, as well as v.u einations and healthcare." 

Donations will also help with iHk! .np|&gt;ln - 
and emergent \ water and sanitation. Husk said 

According to the lied Cross, community giv- 
ing for the tsunami reliel has been overwhelm- 
ing. I hat fact has caused the organization lo.siup 
accepting new donations Ai cording to Husk, the 
community of Fort Wayne alone has donated 
over $300,000 to the Red Cross. 

"As of Jan. 3 1st, there has been a cease in all 

Rusk encourages everyone In donate in the 
International Relief Fund, a general fund set up 
for any future disasters. 

"Donating mone;. at follett's was easy. I was 
already there Inlying hooks, and what a way to 
help out," junior Kenny Oliver said. 

Rusk said everyone in the community came 
together to help in the tragedy of the tsunami. 
She saw young &lt; hiMrcri don. mug pi^jy banks m 
money they collected from shoveling snow. The 
schools in fort Wayne also came together to raise 
money for the relief effort. She also said many 
businesses matched individual contributions, 
making donations count even more. 

"Although it will take a lot of time and mon- 
ey, there is an ongoing support system working 
to get everyone taken care of and everything 
cleaned up." Rusk said. 



Wartell 
staying at 
IPFW 



IPFW. 

Wartell told the News Sen- 
tinel he decided to withdraw his 
candidacy for the president of 
Radford University in Radford, 
Virginia 



"The c 



„T-, I 



■ Is 



" he told the newspaper. 

candidates for the position. 
Radford is expected to make a 
decision regarding the position 



Kittakato 
speak on 
Japanese 
internment 



In \M2, the U.S. govern. 



justified for reasons of "military 
necessity," and internees were 
released by 1994. 

Dorothy Kitlaka was there. 
On Wednesday, March 16, the 
IPFW History Club Is present- 
ing her speaking engagement 
"Japanese Internment: A Per- 
sonal Account." 

Kitiaka will speak about 
racial prejudice as a govern- 
mental motivation for the in- 
ternment, the loss of personal 
possessions during the Inter- 
ment, and reparations to the 
ho.inifi surivlng internees. 



Apple 
announces 
revamped 
iPod mini 

By Stephen Pepple 



have gadget of the moment, 
but many consumers find 
the S249 to $499 price tag too 
costly, which is why Apple has 
released the iPod mini. 

The new iPod mini of- 
fers many of the same fea- 
tures as the original iPod and 
mini iPod. It is a lightweight, 
sleek model with a battery life 
of up to 16 hours. Starting 
at $199, the new iPod mini, 
which offers storage of 4GB, 
Is still not cheap. But "at this 
breakthrough price point, the 
second generation iPod mini 
should appeal to even more 
music lovers," said Steve lobs 
last week when he announced 
the iPod mini. 

For an additional $50 
the iPod mini is available in a 
6GB model that offers 50 per- 
cent more storage. Besides its 
smaller design, the iPod mini 

► IPOD: facte A? 



ipsra 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



Newsroom: (260) 481-6584 
Fax: (260) 481-6045 
Advertising Oept.: (260) 481-6583 
E-mail: contact@iptwcommunlcator.org 



^2T^* 






The Com* 


rlUNICATOR 

IPSNInc 

Walb Union Suite215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fori Wayne, IN 46805 




Andrew Welfle 

' Editor-in-Chief 

awatflaOlpfwcomniunlcator.org 


K.E. Casey 

' Managing Editor 


Newsroom / Editor 

(260)481-6584 


heca»wy«ip(wcommunlcator.o&lt;p 




Afden Bordner 

Advertising Manager 


Advertising 

(260)481-6583 


abanlneiOiptwxmntunicatotMQ 


Publisher 


Katie PniHf 

■ Copy Editor 

kpnilttOlpfwcommunlcator.ora. 


(260)481-6585 


David Hunter 




News Editor 

Kelly Royal 

Photo Editor 

krpyalOlptwcommunlcator.org 




IJHfflfllaflPI 




Anthony Maurer 

Sports Editor 

tmaurarOlpfwcommunlcator.org 


MM^SmiA^SUn ol 


Kelly Lynch 

A&amp;E Editor 

khmcfiOlpfwcommunloator.org 


SSSs 


Brlanna BeHord 


rT»L"o! ""' "* *° M " m ' "" 


Page Designer 

bbatfortfOrpfwcorrvnunlcator.org 


r^rBHH 


Steve Pepple 

Chief Reporter 


m ^r.aSS^worot W,d ■ 


apepplaOlpfwcommunlca1or.org 


TZZH^Z^lS'JS. 


Dorte Reynolds 

Publisher 

OVrjyno4osOtifwcommurfeat.ar.org 


"n™s put*!*" 



different abortion proct'dures and pos- 
sible side efTecis of abortion, including a 
page on the potential link between abor- 



■ claims that most 
si tidies ill us fur show a link; however a 
study published lust year in The Lancet, 
■national fjener.it medical journal. 



lien li.nl icported h 

r discovering! hey had hreasi cancer 

i was less reliable, according lo ihe 



i linn v. 



study, which questioned 



i Net is the umbrella organiza- 
tion which provides support and materi- 
als, like brochures, for pregnancy crisis 
centers like the Campus Hope Center and 
A Hope Center on Lake Avenue. Accord- 
ing their website, "Care Net is a Christian 
ministry assisting and promoting Ihe 
evangelistic, pro-life work of pregnancy 
centers in North America." 

The side effects cited in the brochure 
include infection, scarring and even 
death, though the brochure 



Ihe side effects. 

According to M. Sara Rosenthal, 
PhD, in an article published on WebMD, 
"First-trimester abortion is considered 
one of the safest medical procedures. The 
risk of major complications is low. In fact, 
there's only a 0.2 to 0.6 percent chance of 
something going dramatically wrong dur- 
ing ihe procedure." 

Christina is uncomfortable talk- 
ing about abortion. She gives her words 
slowly and sporadically during the 
interview. She looks around the room 
while the others talk, periodically making 
eye contact. She holds her hands clasped 
tightly together either next to or in-be- 
tween her legs. There are white spots on 
her knuckles. 

"Why do I believe that (abortion is 
wrong)?", she says. "Because if you create 
a human being, God, it's just not — you 



"Yeah," Christina says. 

"So that you could walk out of (here, 
and go, 'Okay, I need to make the best 
choice for me, based on the information I 

"Yeah," Christina says. "After I got 
the information, 1 closed the door and 
read (it), and then I called him, I called 
this baby's dad, and 1 said, 'We need to 
read this together,' and he's like. Okay.' 
and then I was like, 'I'll go out ihe next 
morning and call my parents." 

Christina says the father 



Ml) 



"left ihe picture," and she will be pursuing 
child support. She works at Hall's Guest 
House as a hostess and cashier. 

The biggest problem, she says, was 
the lack of support from her friends. 

"How has it been difficult? 
People... (some of my friends said) that 
I did this on purpose, that I meant to 
get pregnant... it was weird.. .There were 
people that 1 knew when I was in high 
school, these were people that I always 
hung out with. And they.. .weren't behind 
me," she said. 

She currently lives with her parents 
after having moved out of the dorms 



with people as non-denominational as 
possible, and she agreed to that, that her 
first and foremost priority would be the 
health and wellness of the person, and to 
help to educate and inform and to guide 
for the health and well-being for the per- 
son. It wouldn't be the time to push any 
particular religious situation," she said. 

Were Planned Parenthood, a pro- 
choice organization, to ask for a similar 
arrangement within the IPFW Heath and 
Wellness Clinic. Tillapaugh said she would 
be equally open to it. 

"We're a campus of diversity, and 
we want to represent diversity as much 
as possible with the Health and Wellness 
( enter," she said. 

The client agreement for the Cam- 
pus Hope Center acknowledges that their 



because of dorm policy. 

Rosan confirms that, like Care Net. 
the Campus Hope Center is a "faith- 
based" organization. The center does not 
require that you follow their faith to use 

"If (a student) doesn't do the God 
thing, that's cool too. We totally 100 per- 
cent respect that," she says. 

Judy Tillapaugh, coordinator of the 



Center when Rosan asked to use her offict 
space for six hours a week. 

"As 1 talked with Rosan early on... 
I did encourage her to keep her consults 



states that the c 
for abortions. 

Rosan pointed out that funding for 
the center's luncheons and workshops is 
provided by A Hope Center; they only use 
the IPFW clinic for meeting space. 

The Campus Hope Center had 65 
clients in 2004. 

"1 think the goal of a student orga- 
nization is to help students make healthy 
choices in college so they can have a lot 
of fun, so they can go into their future 
without— there's over 25 STDs... we want 
to educate them on information on health 
relationships," says Rosan. 

"(Abstinence is) the optimal healthy 
lifestyle," she says. 

"It is definitely an organization 
that is built on compassion," says Sheila. 
"We're not here to judge, we're not here 
to pre-judge, we're not here to do any of 
r throw anything down anybody's 



lhni.ii, ut b.isu all\ jiim v, 






! "helped a lot." Last week, she found 
out she's having a boy. 

"How do 1 feel right now? I'm getting 
excited..." she says. "I'm having a boy. I'm 
getting excited, my family's getting excited." 



l armband and by USB to a i 

; iPod, iPod photo and newly downloaded o 

-emodeled iPod photo, and the recent iPod shuffle, the new iPod charged by tht 
nini and is one of numerous models of four Apple designs avail- Apple Computer has already sold more the 10 million iP- 

ible. ods, making it by far the best-selling music player in the world. 

The iPod mini works with Apple's on-line iTunes Music As a response in part to this success, on Feb. 18 Apple split its 



Mme, which is currently the lop digital iniisn retailer Anilunes slock, which had climbed [■ 
user simply downloads purchased music from ihe store to their I he split is attractive to invt 
iTunes software library. Whenever the iPod mini is connected less for individual shares. 



(2-week high at $81.99 a share. 
s because it allows them to pay 



Sociology prof, reflects on academic 
career, service in collegiate atmosphere 




What are you 
doing for spring 
break? 

■ Easy options for a much-needed week off 



he would become a teacher. But 
he says his mentors and gradu- 
ate professors changed his life. 
s spent the last 



"The irony is, a teacher 
was the last thing on earth I 
wanted to be," he said. "I spent 
my high school years getting 
kicked out of class." 

Ashton lived in a middle 
class Detroit neighborhood. 
He was one of five children 
with only highschool- educated 
parents. He said his parents in- 
stilled in him early the impor- 

tanceofa college education. ASHTON: Pat Ashton, professor of sociology, stands in front of a penguin-laden 
With a self-proclaimed bulletin board detailing career possibilities for a sociology major. 

ami -authority attitude, Ashton 

headed oil 10 graduate school 

with designs on changing ihe world. He majored in sociology students walk 

because he though it would help him Inrther his goals of social 

"I was a member of the 
t, civil right! 



west at are locations or on 
web," said Westerman. 

Day trips to Chicago o 



by Kelly Royal / kroyal@ipfwcommunicator.org 






hesajd. 
After graduate school. Ashlon was faced v 

egree uj rhe real world lie began his careen 
i former professor's class His leclunng position 



the stage to graduation. 

Although nut originally involved in the development of the 

FeaceandConllici Studies program, n was an easy fit for Ashton. 

He was brought up in a family that taught him to stand up 

for what he believed in. His opposition to the war in Vietnam and 

involvement in the many movement-, of the Til's drew him to ihe 

h how lo apply program. He marched with Dr. King in Detroit and helped found a 

aguesik'ciurei civil nghis organization therein I 'Kill. I he organization is now the 



If you forgot to book i 
flight to Cancun for spring break 
this year — don't worry. There 
are still plenty of inexpensive 
last-minute vacation options 
for you to choose from. 

Robin Westerman is a 
l manager at AAA travel agen- 
I cies, and he said the prevailing 
trend is to head south on spring 
break. The top vacation spots 



rangements that can be made 
with even one or two weeks no- 
tice. However, the cost of flights 



for trips to Florida or the Carib- 
bean generally range from $300- 
500, flight costs not included, 
according to Westerman. 



Indiana residents who do r 

fixed budget. But even these 
trips can be cosdy, due to cur- 
rent gas prices. 

Indianapolis, Chicago, De- 
troit, Columbus and other cities 
less than four hours away are 
host to many music, art, theatre 
and sporting events for all ages 



biggest of its kind in the 

As director of Peace and Conflict Studies, he is promoting 
a new bulletin board in Classroom-Medical Building next to the 
current PCS board. It is an interactive bulletin board that allows 
students to have a continuous dialogue going. 



ty. He helped 



five-year teaching assistumship. 

"I give all the credit to my memo 
that 1 didn't even know was there, " A- 
to go to Michigan Stale, which ai thai 
was into leaching, lliey pioneered tl 
graduate students how 10 teach." 

Ashton has carried their mission. He feels that too often PhD tice issues from any perspective they 

programs te.ich students how to he g I researchers, hoi never speech or disrespectful," he said. 

give them adequate ie.ii.hmg skills for ihe classroom. Ashton not only strives to make his birthpl; 

"Just because you are able to research the Knowledge does lie is extremely active in the Fort Wayne commi 
not mean you will he able m i^acb it. In- said lor this reason, he found a volunteer community dispute resohiiioii service called 
makes ii his goal lo help I'ldl students learn die ropes of teaching Common Ground, Inc. He currently serves as their president. 

"I am extremely proud ol all of my awards, most specifically 

ntlered ;i position leaching al IJTW Me the llohn P.) Ulmer Award," said Ashton. Hewas the 20UJ reciim-m 

siiy bui instantly felt at home once he of the lohn P. Ulmer Outstanding Service io Mmuriiv and Dis.diU-d 

Students Award, lie has also garnered awards Irom a regional so- 

"I immediately enjoyed n here, hciause ibe siud.uis ,,rr uulog} organization in recognition of his work in the field. In ad- 

[H'oplclike , lies. ad I , lm really proud of I I'RV because ,i gels Uition he has been presented wilb [he hull, in., University I'resi- 

people through ihe gales wlm migli nherwise have a ■ h.ince dent's Award eight " 

It really is a pay ii forward kind of thing." 

Ashlon identifies with siudenison il'l-W's campus and strives 
to give them ihe education thev need in smceed in todays sociely 
He expresses great accomplishment when he talks of seeing former 



In 1979. i 
took the job o 
arrived. 



ID r 



o remind me why I am doing this." he said. 



useful tool for planning a i 
tion. Free websites like www. 
VacationSpot.com, one of the 
more comprehensive travels 



cialized packages for any 
lination imaginable, most sites 
offer instant access to informa- 
tion on hotels or other lodging 
and transportation 

Another valuable travel 
website for students is spring- 
break. researcheasy.com, which 
provides resources specifically 
for spring break vacationers. 
The site features a newsletter, 
links and other information 
that focus on brief, affordable 

Most travel agencies 
this area do not offer travel 
packages for trips any less than 
a week. But travel agencies can 
still provide some recreational 
and transportation information 
for regional travelers. 



destinations because they &lt; 
less expensive and crowded 
than other popular spring break 



national parks and hundreds of 
state parks that are renowned 
Campers, 



1 camping fees to 
enjoy these resources close to 

Some people would be 
surprised to know that other 
outdoor activities in Indiana in- 
clude skiing, rafting and moun- 
tain climbing. 

Students with children 
may feel limited on travel op- 
tions this spring, but they really 
have the most options, said Meg 
Distler of Covington Travel. 



cater specifically to families. 
There is the Great Wolf Lodge 
in Kansas City, a family resort 

door water park. Or a family 
could spend a fun and educa- 
tional day at the newly opened 
Lincoln Library and Museum in 
Springfield. 

If a person is willing to 
think outside the beach, there 
are many fun and affordable op- 
portunities for spring vacation. 



i.'.'u...c ;«.; ■■■: ; 

Path to freedom runs through IPFW 



By Karl Glass 

kglauOipfwcommuni enter. 



Issakha Oni.ir pla\s miiwi uith his friends 
on the weekends, tutors in math .md carefully 
iiiiii-iRus IJ credit hours.it iri-'W. Beneath the 
surface, however. Omar has a past unlike any- 
thing the majority of 1 ITU 1 students have ever 
experienced. 



Omar is a Sudanese refugee. 

Sudan, the largest country in Africa, has 
lieen lighting the longest civil war in Africa's 
history, hi ) a mi an of i his year, a peace agree- 
ment was signed to siahili/e relations hetueen 



lion graves, to a (.lose. Unfortunately, the peace 
agreement dues tioi apply to 1 1 le ongoing hostility 
where Omar grew up. m Sudan's western Darfur 
region. 

Photographs from Omar's remote past 
herald a sense of serenity, simplicity and fam- 
ily togetherness Men with tender smiles lounge 
in oversized, white shirt -gowns, he-side women 
modestly covered in head and iliess scarfs. An 
arahesquc ruglieilei led with pillows serves as a 
couch; a wooden i rale, a chair 1 lotdoor snap- 
shots are framed hy hanana trees, sun-flooded 
sand and camels in the distance Neighboring 
homes with dirt floors, branch ceilings and mud 
and grass walls are bound in twine, built in a few 
days, and i.tn lasi up to 10 years. 

Their hakyonian ivay of life lias all but van- 
ished as violent ethnic -militias known as the Jan- 
iawc-ed ravish the levts sized Darfur region The 
Sudanese government is reputed to have called 
on the barbarous I. ni]a weed when the- area's black 
Africans began rebelling against the government's 
harsh discrimination. 

The United N 
furcontlictasthev 

&gt; world. Ethnic cleansing, 
s, looting, ; 
d disease are aiming the heap of atrocities 



■ s has desi ribed the Dal - 




gang rapes, a 

thrust onto the people Since the conflict began 
in I ebruary of 20ii;,, it is estimated thai 400,000 

people haiedteil and over a million have fled 



safe place and pioietnon In ther govern- 
ments," Omar said in htsheaw /aghawa dialect 
"Everything is lost by the war: most people lost 
everything." 



[aujawced while tick-tiding then Milage in Darlnr. 

"I left Sudan for political reasons." Omar 
said. "I was always in I'e.ir i if being arrested for 
speaking out against the government." 

When Omar hrst left Sudan, he moved to 
neigh boring i hail and lived with a friend of his 
grandfather's. After living in Chad for a "'"' 



REFUGEE: Issakha Omar, a Sudanese refugee attending IPFW full-time, studies in the Walb Union cafeteria. Omar has lived 
in America for seven years, escaping racial persecution in his home country. 



disclosing his whereabouts. 

According i o Dinar, his people iebel again si 
the government because ol iishlalanl disregard 
for their suffering. In turn, am government criti- 
cism can result in tort , imprisonment and 

even death Because Omar's fai her spoke out 
against the govern men t. he also had to flee the 
country lor bis safety, for three years, Omar's 
mother and father have been separated. 

"In Sudan, freedom is dillcretu." said Omar. 
"There is no freedom of speech." 

Omar playfully regards his American liberty 
as bis lucky break. 

a lottery — it's not easy to win," 



&lt;10hl.lt 



status, now America is noi only his safe haven, 
hut his home. 

Omar arrived in Ameri August 1991) 

with only a suitcase, a blanket and a New York 
City address. Altera I wo week slay willi II) other 



and a home were awaiting him. After five it 
illative years in Indiana anil iluee onerous laclory 
jobs, tlinar decided m qui I working (iy autumn 
of J0U.I. ( linar was living in I oi I Wayne and at- 
tending IPFWfull-f 

The2" 
long way u 



it Sudan's poor economy, 
cant security and corrupt government will have 
o change before he will ever go back. He is hope- 






Sttdatlr 






Omar hit the jackpot alfci In- proved his 
identity and authenticated his tear of being per- 
secuted in Sudan to the U.S. government. After a 
year of incessant paperwork anil running thnmgh 
bureaucratic mazes, dinar was granted refugee 



Game of minds: chess at Walb 




Photos byAmie Sarka / asarkadipfwcom 



CHECKMATE: Brandon Smits (ABOVE LEFT), a sophomore in French and music, 
and Justin Jackson (ABOVE RIGHT) a sophomore in photography, play chess 
outside between Walb Union and the St. Joe River. The caBinet containing the 
pieces can be unlocked by the receptionists at the Walb Information Desk. 




Your Ad Here. 



By advertising in The Communicator, you could 
reach over 5,000 students in just one week. 

Contact Aiden Bordner at IPSN Advertising at 
481-6583 or ads@ipfwcommunicator.org 



Thursday, March 17, 2005, 7:30 p.m. 
IPFW Walb Student Union Ballroom 

David Brooks's goal as a commentator is to make 
conservatism attractive to both the List and West Coasts. 
He has a gift for bringing audiences face to face with the 
spirit of our limes with humor, insight, and quiet passion. 
He is a keen observer of the American way of life and a 
savvy analyst of present-day politics and foreign affairs. For 
some time a frequent contributor to The New York Times, 
he now writes a regular biweekly oped column for the 
newspaper. His Saturday column aims for humor, social 
commentary, and the "lighter" side of the news; the 
Tuesday column is harder and more political. He also is a 
regular analyst on NewsHour will) Jim Lebrer. 

Free public lecture T Free parking 

American Sign language interpreter provided upon request. 

I L'Clure lundal Ina gram from Ibc English. Homer. Mitchell Foundation. 

Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity/Equal Access 




The Communicator 



K. t Car* Maraghg E*ct 



Podium 



Wednesday. Iftm* 1 »05 
PageW 



Opinions • Editorials 







.VsW 



Cutd ww do uou&gt; tocX a-t -Wve toJiinteA, uv uowi 
hwUvvtA eAte, lout not notice Um, oeant in aouwi 



Kelly Lynch / klyn&lt;tiM|&gt;k'.'i 



Staff Editorial 



Report good step towards flood effective control 



"I Surrender Mother Nature" reads the spray- 
painted sign in front of the house on Tillman Road 
in a photograph published in the Journal Gazette 
on Sunday. 

Fort Wayne is a city with three rivers running 
through it. There should be no surprise or anger 
that flooding is a major problem. 

It took years of flooding, re-building and 
flooding again before the area that is now Head- 
waters Park became the park that it is today. 

Fort Wayne is by no means unique in this as- 
pect, however. New Orleans is actually below sea 
level and requires a system more elaborate than 
Fort Wayne's just to keep it dry. Fort Wayne is much 



better than that — the worst thing the setders of 
Fort Wayne decided to do was place the city in a 
f loodplain, which is hardly a unique city-planning 
decision. 

The cost of life and property resulting from a 
flood is heart wrenching, and it is a good sign that 
Fort Wayne is taking further steps to control flood- 
ing in the city. The flood of 2003, as reported in the 
Journal Gazette story on Sunday, "damaged more 
than 400 homes and businesses in Fort Wayne." 

With the publishing of a study by the Army 
Corps of Engineers, the City of Fort Wayne now has 
an action plan from which to move forward — and 
these steps should be more aggressive. 



There should also be no consternation about 
flood-control measures. The plans proposed are 
cheaper than in previous recommendations and 
are less intrusive while still being effective. 

It is easy to forget about the presence of the 
rivers on a daily commute to work and/or school. 
The river running past the IPFW campus is barely 
visible, shielded by trees. 

But when the rivers overflow, the entire city is 
held at the mercy of the water. Because we can- 
not move or take back the decisions of the city 
residents before us, it is imperative that the cur- 
rent city administration take proactive r 



sible. 



Monologues: Feminisim is dead 



Casey at the Bat 

By K.E. Casey 
hecasey@ipfwcommunicator.org 



i died on Saturday night, and I 






ti Rite c 



It died on the stage o 
precisely when the audience 

was, but rest assured--ever 
curses on a regular basis I found it offensive. 
I suddenly felt a — . ^^ 

supreme isolation from 
packed audience. 



excellent from a 

perspective. Additionally, the issues cc 

Scottish Rite, abuse toward women were raised in a 

The acting, as per the writing, 



the audience who felt as I did. 



"Was I the only one who 
thought that yelling out 
obscene words and simulating 
moaning on stage was not the 
best way to achieve equality?" 



Was I the only one 
who thought that yelling 
out obscene words and 
simulating moaning on 
stage was not the best way 
to achieve equality? 

Affecting the mas- 
culine careless, coarse 






hardly &lt; 



the 






niyihmg in advance the 



eofu 



rights. 



audience, all yelling out this word, many of them All of the positive messages u 

at the top of their lungs. raucoi 

It's amazing what a crowd mentality and a I 

darkened theatre can allow people to do. that I 

In any other company, in any other situ- going 

ation, that would have been abhorrent. But three children and a full- 

instead, such a group "activity" was met with Ilookedfortheexamplesoffamouswomen 

who had persevered despite the disparity in pay 

the young boy, somewhere that still exists in the workplace, despite sexual 



r of presentation. 
earched in desperation for the feminis 
ad known — the example of my mothi 

J school to get her master's degree wi 



I looked 
around 8 or 10 years 






■; 1 fell supremely sad that his 
dragged him to this performance. 

With the shouts of this word, feminism 
died. Sensationalism took up the torch, and I 
was no longer interested in what the play had 

However, the killing of feminism was not 

all that the play accomplished, when all of the 



of harassment and 

ad And instead. 1 found a three-hour play that 

;o OVer-the-lop ili.it its message was Inst in 
bid. militant defiance of some phantom 



chauvinism that I could n 

Thai is why feminism is dead. 

If a play that sensationalizes sexuality c 

call itself "V-Day." as in victory, then I don't we 



Have something to say? 

Anything you just 
have to respond to? 

Make your voice heard. 



The editorial board of 

The Communicator wants to hear 

from you. 



The other cost of war 



Staff Column 



One of the societal problems lor a prosper- 
ous and progressive nation is the backwardness 
and stupidity that liberty allows of its citizens. 
This is a special problem from America given her 
unipolar power and inherent imperialism. As 
Americans witnessed with the Abu Ghraib scan- 
dal, the exported misdeeds of only a few reflect 
badly upon the whole. And just as the dust of 
■-&lt; .iinl.il had seemed i" s L -nle two national sto- 



formed a 



a group of n 
selected to simulate a prison 
assigned as guards and the 









First, there was a three-star Marine, Lt. 
Gen. James Mattis at a San Diego panel discus- 
general, who commanded expeditions 



lAfghaj 









people." The soldier was speaking on his experi- 
ence in combat, which he also called a "hell of a 
hoot." Mattis's Marine commandant defended 
him by saying he is one of the country's bravest 
experienced leaders. 



Milwaukee were eventually prevented by school 
administrators from selling bracelets and trin- 
kets as part of iheii "Adopt a Sniper" fundraiser. 
The group was hoping to make money so they 
i. on Id buy sniping equipment for soldiers in Iraq 
One of the slogans touting the fundraiser was " 1 



violence and ignorance manifest i 

popular culture is reflective of the nation's overall 

character. 

There is a conception that soldiers in par- 
ticular come from a "Halo" culture, as 1 will call it, 
the namesake ol ihe popular shoot-'em-up video 
game. A culture ih.u is producing a xenophobic, 



system. Some v 

rest of the students became p 

The study had lo be halted after the first 
few days because of the misbehavior of the 
guards, who had verbally, physically and sexu- 
ally harassed their inmates in ways alarmingly 
similar to the Abu Ghraib hazing. 

Naturally, war and like tension evokes our 
most visceral and brute instincts. What Abu 
Ghraib and similar scandals show is (he ten- 
dency to relieve this emotional tension, whether 
in anger or in jest, on other people. As military 
experts and veters 
tions can and will lead even thi 
people to dehumanize others. 

But the Stanford study showed the t 
guards t 



banality is a force of evil — depravity becomes 



|ingoisik ami .ie,e,iv.-ive jiencralinn of the type 
that lashes out in places like Columbine High 
School. 

As this follows, many explainers on Abu 



greater capacity for contemporary 1 

In an age of cell phone camera snapshots, 

candid or posed, phomgi.qihs now capture 
our most drunken, stupid and embarrassing 

tained by humiliation and perversion. And (his 
is just one regretful aspect of our culture enemies 
of the west have no problem pointing out. 

This all said, most Americans believe in the 
values of democracy and individual liberty that 
their country represents. 

Whether or not our foreign policy or citi- 
s always represent it, America is the primary 



bastion of the freedoms many other 
lack. For this reason, America should ever 
wary that our most important values not 
undermined by the haughtiness, pomposity 



I question considered in discus- ignorance of empires. 



Editorial Policy 



e opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed do not nect 
ees or its studen( body. A column is solely (he opinion of its author, 
itot welcomes responses. Letters to the Editor must be signed, datet 



' — '•"•"■ J 






Bush's media policy mirrors Putin's 



From the Wire 



(U-WIRE) President George W. Bush and 
Russian President Vladimir Putin may have 
finally found something in common. 

Anyone who tuned in to last week's 



Bratislava. Slovakia, would have probably 
noticed the cold, sober tone with which 
both men conducted themselves, due in 
large part to the long history of disagree- 



However, in his now-customary ef- 
forts to advocate the proliferation of Ameri- 
can democracy throughout the world, Bush 
may have accidentally stumbled upon one 
area of domestic policy in which Russia 
and America actually bear striking similari- 
ties — "freedom" of the press. 

On Thursday, Bush offered a vague 
attack on the democratic values of Putin's 



"Dei 






tain things in common. They 
of law and protection of 
press and a viable political opposition." 
r proper delmiiinns 



clidn'i chal- 
it violations 
the United 
j journalists 



journalist to ask Putin why h 
lenge Bush and "talk a lot ab 
of the rights of journalists i 
States, about the fact that sot 
have been fired." 

How, then, did our noble presidi 



fara 






referring to," he said, then turned toward 
the American reporters in the audience and 
disrespectfully joked, 

"Any of you still have your jobs?" 

I guess he was lucky that Matt Cooper 



of Time magazine and ]udy Miller of The 
New York Times were not in the audience. 
Thanks to conservative pundit Robert No- 
vak and a Justice Department infringement 
upon freedom of the press, they certainly 
don't still have their jobs. 1 guess he was 
lucky that Mary Mapes of CBS News was 
not present either. This hero of the Abu 
Ghraib prison scandal is now collecting un- 
employment checks because she and Dan 
Rather questioned the president's dubious 
military history. 

Without a doubt, these were the jour- 
nalists to whom the Russian reporter was 
referring, and unless Bush hasn't been 
keeping up on the news in his own country. 
I'm pretty sure he was aware of this, too. 

It's unfortunate, though, that the criti- 
cisms of Putins direct control over the Rus- 
sian news were not met with a simitar ques- 
tion about the White House's authoritarian 
involvement in the American media. 

Perhaps this would have helped 
strengthen lies and further peace between 
the two world leaders, because it certainly 
would have highlighted an issue in which 
they have something in common. 

While Putin puppeteers news orga- 
nizations like Channel One, Russia TV and 
NTV. Bush controls a few media mario- 
nettes of his own -- namely Armstrong Wil- 
liams, Maggie Gallagher, "leff Gannon" and 
probably a few more to be named later. 

In case you have forgotten, Williams 
is the syndicated columnist and television 
commentator who was bribed S240.000 by 
Bush's Department of Education to pro- 
mote the president's learning initiatives to 
the public. 

Likewise, Gallagher is the syndicat- 
ed columnist who was bribed $21,500 by 
Bush's Department of Health and Human 
Services to endorse the president's tradi- 



Pick a crisis, any crisis 



For the Write Reason 



lional- marriage proposals. 

Finally, "Gannon" is the alias-using, 
softball-tossing conservative • "reporter" 
who was repeatedly admitted entrance into 
White House press briefings under a false 



president's Yale educated intellect. 

If you ask me, this kind of authoritar- 
ian media manipulation would be enough 
it) j;et even Stalin, Castro and Mussolini to 
admit, I his [lush guy is good!" 

How, then, can the president of the 
United States of America justify dropping 



lie himself. nlmiltecl ih.il the key to a 
te is the preservation of "a 
Tree press," yet while he was busy dipping 
the fingers of free Iraqi voters in purple 
ink, he was also restricting the freedoms 
of American voters by regulating what was 
printed in the black ink of their newspa- 

And there you have it. Only in Ameri- 
ca could a man wage a war in the name of 
democracy abroad while simultaneously 
waging a war against democracy at home... 
ami gel away with it. 

Kim long-ll of North Korea never had 
the world's respect because of the nonexis- 
tent free media of his home country. Putin 
continues to lose the same respect because 
his iron fist is squeezing tighter and tighter 
around the last remaining vestiges of free 
and independent news in Russia. 

And Bush? He was rewarded with a 
resounding reelection victory and an over- 
whelming mandate for a second term in of- 

Or at least that's what I heard on Fox 



How to tell when your mommy hates you 

Vance's Views 



So I thought that it would be humor- 
ous to write a column basically running 
down the ways that demonstrate when a 
mother hales her child. 

Yeah, 1 know. I am a sick and twisted 
individual, right? 

But after my normal perusing of 
. CNN's version of breaking news, 1 found 
the ultimate in mother-child hating. The 
Prince of England is getting married and 
his mother won't see it happen. That's right, 
the Queen of England (that big ' ' 



pretty popular, right? I 

Now, I didn't say that Hulk Hogan is 
more popular than the queen, but he is 
right up there. Can I get an agreement? 
Anybody? Well, maybe not. 
.,,, i,TPJscowld,a]| be_b|amed on the queen. 



he is Hulk ators). 

Apparently, a Hiitish newspaper w 
quoted as saying, "This should be one 
tlie happiest days of their lives, but it 
turning into a nightmare." 

Qr it's turning into "Jerry Springer" 



1. uhciv i\ 



a hers- 






e founded a. 



key The fact of the matter is that she 
doesn't like her kid or his wife- 

l Hulk Hogan would 
■ his daughter get married. And he' 



, this does fall under bad parenting, 
I am almost certain of that. What kind of 
a parent doesn't want to watch her child 
marry the woman of his dreams — again. 

So what if he has already been mar- 
ried in the most over- the- top and unneces- 
sarily elaborate wedding ever. He's a prince, 
any expense? I mean, 



U lute Wedding Chapel in Vegas? 

That would be cheesy, but sadly 
the cheesiest part of this whole story. But 



make that show 
more? I bet if they do, one with Prince 
Charles would be the highest rated epi- 
sode — ever. I hate Jerry Springer and I'd 
watch it, Well, maybe they can show it on 
"Maury." 

After all, Maury Povich has given up 
having any values, or a soul — so I bet he 
would be game for the British monarchy 
episode- I bet Prince William has some 
illegitimate kids floating around out there 
somewhere. Why not get the whole family 
involved? 

The great tragedies of the world, 
when will they end? And when will Prince 
Charles's mommy stop hating him? 



While President Bush more likely to have inadequate 

worries about where to focus access to medical care. 
America's democracy efforts The major issues debated 

after Iraq has been saved and in the 2004 presidential elec- 

while Congress decides wlieih- I ion were the war in Iraq, home- 

er Viagra should he covered by land security, unemployment 

health insurance policies, and, to a lesser extent, health- 

480,000 U.S. residents care and social security. AIDS 

aged 18 to 49 are infected with never made ii into the health- 

H1V and 268.000 of those aren't care debate and couldn't find a 

receiving the medication and place anywhere else, either. It's 

healthcare they need, easier to talk about the things 

Even though we as a na- that don't scare us so much, 

Hon have deluded ourselves the things dial aren't so embar- 

into believing that the AIDS rassing. 1 mean, shouldn't the 

crisis has passed us by, that it world's mosl advanced country 



In 2003, the U.S. under 
Bush initiated the U.S. Emer- 
gency Plan for AIDS Relief in or- 
der to assist several third world 
countries, a group in which the 
U.S. Is of 



epidemic. 40,000 people in the 
U.S. test positive for HIV and 
18,000 die of AIDS each year in 
this country. 

Recent data collected by 



the National Health i 



. Nu- 



trition Examinations surveys state Condoleezza Rice asked 
shows that the racial gap In HIV the Senate Foreign Relations 
victims is widening. Committee for $:t.2 billion in 

Willi the overall U.S. rate U.S. funds to support 2005 
at 0.4 percent, the =» ~^~ AIDS efforts at the 

rate for whites Is 
holding steady at 
0,2 percent, but 



for blacks 
has gone from 1 to 
2 percent over the 
years studied— 
1988 to 1994 and 
1999 to 2002. 

These surveys 



homeless populu- 



"it sounds as if 
I'm arguing for 

isolationism, 
and sometimes 

I think that is 
what I want for 

this country." 



that these 
experience 



inaccurate, the actual numbers 
are likely lu he higher. 

The director of the Na- 
tional Association of People 
with AIDS called these figures 
evidence of "a burgeoning epi- 



zens lo go without 

we busy ourselves 
helping others? 



Since these peopl 



I think that is what I want 
for this country. 

People live in poverty 
here, people starve here, people 
iere and people 
:an't ignore the 



die here. Bu 
; arc way people 
likely Ing to Hue in other parts of the 
n are world anymore than President 

11-out There are so many crises 

eason lo choose from in this global 
n which we find our- 
sbecamoithose. ., selves. ,rw iu*l 
:i riving little or H we lot usalloiu energies 

s still n 



1990s saw significant advances 



those who need them. Because 
drug addicts and those who live 
in poverty are more likely to 



Su we du the h 



I mean, even Hulk Hogan would go 1 can see Prune Charles being married when ivill the\ end-' And when will Prince 
see his daughter get married. And he's by Elvis tor one of his adoring imperson- Charles's mommy stop hating him? 

Public pressure defines private ideals , leads to eating disorders 

Staff Columnist 



Staff Columnist 

By Nicole Hacha-Thomas 

nmhadia@ipfwcommunicalor.org 
Eating disorders affect 0' 



;s Week, we 
3 learn about differ- 
t disorders, their causes and remedies, but we 
should also look at how to prevent ourselves and 
others from developing ( 



There is much to be 



" Health and \ 
Tillapaugh said. 

Women are const 



i the way of pre- 



ages of thin beautiful super-models. They peddle 
products from toothpaste to cars, and all of them 
are a size two. They are so glamorous and beautiful 
that unconsciously, they determine the standard 
of beauty for the rest of us. We all want to look just 
like mat girl we saw on TV 

We forget the women we see on TV are not 
real Fditors often .inbni-.li images before they are 
released to the public. This distorts our perception 
of reality. We see the women looking like a sizetwo 









Butafterresearch.wefindoutthatonly 1 per- 
cent of the population is genetically predisposed 
to have a super-model figure. This means most 

s Coordinator Judy of us will never look like Cindy Crawford or Kate 
Moss. We are who we are. Our body size is basically 

nundated with im- pre-determined by our genes, if most of your fam- 



ily members are medium to large build, chances 
are you may not ever fit into that size two pair of 
jeans in your closet. No matter how hard someone 
tries, they may never be able to achieve the size of 
their dreams. At least not healthily, anyway. 

Being critical of the media around us is one 
way we can help to prevent eating disorders. If we 
realize tli.il all situations we see in the media are 
constructions, and not reality, we take the first 
siep toward defining beauty in our own terms. 
They make them seem like reality on purpose, 
Didy Mom is shaped like Barbie and Dad isG.I. Joe. 
The advertisers waul us to (hint ui reality on their 
terms, it makes it easier to sell us stuff. We have 
to choose whether to believe what they show us 
or interpret it ourselves. If we do this, we can look 
past the constructed images of beauty. 



We shouldn't feel bad about ourselves and 
our bodies when we see the cast of ■'Friends" be- 
cause we don't look like them, we should feel sorry 
for them because they probably haven't eaten in 






j look 



t the way the 
of women. In 
has is the way 



that 



It is also important 
advertising industry sells the 
advertising the only value a women 
she looks. They disregard all of the 

make women special, personality, i li.u.u ler, intel- 
ligence and a milium other things. 

We need to stop judging ourselves solely on 
looks, because being beautiful is not everything. 
There are mam more important atlributestc ' 



Terrors of the disco cab: Public transportation at 140 kilometers per hour 



Subtitles 



black and white faux fur. And the ii 
were black lights. 

I was hoping for a disco ball 



He didn't pay for dinner and probably 
won't pay for much the first month he's here. 
foreigners stick together overseas and are sur- 
prisingly generous. 



Most people get i 



is and lot's more paid for by people they've just 
met for a month or so after arriving in Korea. The 
only catch is thai you're expected to cover the 
new lolks after that. 

Tired and full, we decided to call ii a night 
early and hailed a laxi. Taxis are everywhere in 
Korea and are surprisingly cheap. 

Public transportation here is good: reliable, 
cheap and plentiful. It puts American public 
transportation to shame. 

I was surprised, but not yet worried 



At first glance, he didn't look 
ferent than a regular cabbie, but h 
made up for his rather mediocre 1 
point during the ride, he referred 
goet namja, "flower 






meanings that ph 
Korean, but it somehow-seeme 

After demonstrating how loud 
would go, the first question ' 
pulled away from the curb w 



to himself a 
may carry i: 



asked when we 

inker, especially 

The beer here is okay, but the Korean drink 

ioice is soju. There's a rumor among for- 

the cab. Tlie car looked like a por- eigners (that may well be true) that soju is made 



of like vodka, ii does have a very chemical tasie, 
though, that betrays ingredients that will prob- 
ably neve ' 



s all the features of his car: the blinking lights 
!0 on the front grill, he said), the light-up hood 
it and, get this, 



' he said. At first I thought he 
meant that the car was a kit. but later I realized 
he was referring lo "Knight Rider." Remember, 
the car was named "Kit." Yeah, i don't really 
remember, either. 

After showing us the features of his kit car. 
he was still doing his best to impress us. First 
lie .ailed his home office to talk to some woman 
about nothing. As he talked, he cupped imagi- 



nary breasts on his own chest. Somehow this v 
showing off. Then he got really crazy. 

He said something 1 didn't understand, 1 
I knew had something to do with racing, a 



kilometers an hour (about 60 miles per hour 
or so), and the road we were on was in the city, 
which probably meant the speed limit uas closer 
to 50 kilometers per hour. The driver hit lot) in 
no time, then jumped up to 120. I wouldn't have 
been loo worried except I was up front, and his 

1 pushed my feet into the floor, grabbed the 
arm rest and hoped for ihe best. He was doing 
about 1-10 and weaving through traffic before he 
llnalU backed off. 

By the time he was done with his joy ride, 
we were almost back at our apartments, so I 



Thi- G &gt;mmunig\tor 




By Kelly Lynch 

klynchtdplwcommunicHof.i 



Owner of vintage clothing store 

Retroactive, Rose Hille, aims to 

take customers back to the past, 

present and quite possibly, 

the future, in fashion 



In the land nf pi',|u-iu.il -.linppint; m.il]-. .irnl look-alike 
clothing stores, Hi'tm.u live rn.iv very well lie ilii- diamond in the 

At first plan re 1 1| ii in i-nli'iingllii'slnre. it self a massive, 
' expanding turnuLopia ol vintage dothiu^ and sundry items, one 
may he ^iven reason to pause. 

After passing rlie welcnnim^ I- 1m- puster and a tiiu, yellow 
chair in the shape ul a hand, i me will spm i lie tin coats, lleatle 
I mi Us . Injur, is. u id (uu'dus ilntir.ilini; ihe landscape ul'i loth 
' ing racks and shelves, sume organized in neat piles and displays, 
others stuck halfway lielween mgan 1/ alum and liappy disarra\ 

Theconienied molher ul these orphaned liellbottoms, 
llappet dresses, jean |ai sets and surplus armv clothes is Hose 
Hille, a woman with sharp, uliservam eyes spin ted behind wide 
rimmed glasses Shi' speaks with a high, expressive voice, genial 
and friendly, and as a setfdesi ribed ci impulsive shopper, she 
wants to be able to give her customers something more than the 
clothes she sells them. 

With strands ol her salt and pepper hair escaping from her 
ponylail. Hille relates a panii ulai story that tits with her mantra: 
"There was this f hristmas puny that a lawyer was putting on, 
and there were prizes and everyone had to dress up like it was 
■ the 1970s. And this couple came m and the guy was a big tall guy, 
' a linebacker, you know, and he says, 'You don't have anything 
that can fit me. do you?'" 

Hille motions lo ihe hack ol hersiore. continuing, "1 have 
mountains and mountains ol glorious tuxedos hack there and 
I've been buying them i onsiatnly and &lt; unit-ring the market... 
and he tries one on and it (ii. and his wile is nil giggling, and he 
lookedgood." 

The wife later found a mat. hinghlue dress from the same 
era, and they made a perlei i pan. going as a i tutple from the 
1970s, "So they went to this pam, and the\ won And the prize 
was an all expense paid trip to I lorida, for a week." 

Hille pauses for a moment, "I helped these guys win a huge 
prize I mean some ol m\ ileal ies ate appearing in a film ai the 



e Film Festival." 
An oft-told story is how Hille and her slot 
ame about: "I just like buying stuff and going 
o garage sales and 1 like buying stuff that 



l Indianapolis. 






Selling the clothes; 

vamng collections 

ested inquiries all the time. While vintage cloiln 

weren't automatic alK her main all taction, she 

bought up (and sold: anything that caught her 

eye. Soon, someone asked. Why d' mi you ope 

vintage clothes Shop?" 

Needless lo say. with the idea planted i 
mind, Hille halted her trips to sell clothes to. it he- 
dealers, quit her |oh and. after walking around 
Soulhtown mall, she noticed a sign wauling new 
tenants for the building. 

She set up shop m the mall soon after and, 
many years after hei initial opening land after 
moving to her current location on North Anthony 
Boulevard), she still has that very same sign. 

From there, things began evolving Shei ontinued to hu\ 
doilies, began renting out outfits to interested parties. When s' 



DRESS-UP: Rose Hille, proprietor of Retroactive, dresses e 
nequin at her shop at 3426 N. Anthony Blvd. 



i&gt; keep working hard, seek- 




it outfits tl 
e worried she'd h 

i tig out clothes everyday, but thi 

"New things come all the time, everyday Sometimes from 
the back Of vans or Utile old ladies (nine in then things ..Instead 
of the dump, these things end up here, they're recycled," she says 
proudly. 

' s life, 



tie kid, 

that solution is strengthened h\ the fact that Hille s dot lies 
above anything else, unique Main 1 of the leather jackets, 
s ,i«n.l faded t-slmts are the real deal, not the carbon copy, 
)-fad product of Abercromhie or Hollister. 
Being unable to help people out, Hille finds, is frustrating. 
She elaborates: "The biggest problem I have is when I have what 
people want, but in their mind, it's not correct People come 
here looking for what ihev saw in other lug name stores and they 
hear the word 'retro' and 'vintage' and they're looking for other 
people's definitions of the styles." 

Hille recou nis,, particular instance in which she tried to 
assist two teenage girls who were looking for an Abercrombie- 
rype product. "I asked them, Do you want to be an individual 
and have every body look at you and say, 'Oh, wow, you're so 
fashion forward' or do you wain everyone to know that you 
bought your stuff at Abercrombie?" 



They girls wanted ihe status, hut not ihe symbol. "I w 

everyone to know that I shop at Ahen rombie," they said. 

Retroactive is perhaps a prune example of working e 



r favorite television show, 

faded cowboy boots and Styx 

t-shirts, eye potential retro prom dresses and cuddle up 
to the store's resident feline, Ness. An expedition for ihe perfect 
outfit is scored In oldies piped m through speakers overhead 



Surrounded In tier own i teat inn. it may he surprising u 
find that at one pi lint in her hie, she hated clothes. "Back 
60s and 70s, thin was in. I he 3fi-24-3fi never worked for 
couldn't find the right clothes. I just hated them." 



nthe 



ish, I made it 

She has sinct 

Retroactive, i 

Bookmark, and ac 

vintage clothing si 

ies. Rose Hille can 



ade peace with the clothes. 

iedup next to Wooden Nickel and The 

s the way from the Firefly ci 

&gt; that rents, sells and buys all a 



o by Kelly Lynch / klynch^ipfw 



VOTE 

CAMPAIGN 

AMBASSADOR 



Lamar Dixon 

Nate Hubley 

Angela Grabczek 

Aishia Mirza 



OU*"ON_AMBASi»DOft@YA 



PLEASE 
RECYCLE 
THIS 
NEWSPAPER! 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



JnitedC 

Art and Education 




LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



Join our warehouse team in a fun, friendly environment. 

■ Work part-time now/full-time in the summer. 

■ Duties include order fitting. c*&gt;*~m*****.tK, v »-m*&gt; 
m Starting at $7.50/hour. 

United Art and Education * Monday - Friday 9am-5pm • 4413 Airport Expressway 



Top Ten Reasons For Not Drinking Over 
Spring Break 


10. 


No hangovers. 


9. 


No puke to clean up. 


8. 


No explaining to significant other/parents. 


7. 


No lost car. 


6. 


No lost license. 


5. 


No unwanted sex. 


4. 


No wondering who you woke up with. 


3. 


No blackouts. 


2. 


No court date. 


1. 


Extra Money! 


A public service announcement from Ihe IPFW Substance Abuse Council 



Part Time Hours. 

Full Time Pay. 



ie perfect job for students or anyone looking for a full or part 
. Gain valuable sales experience while working for a fortune 
loration. We provide paid training, salary + bonus opportunity 
lagement training opportunities. If you are ambitious, like to 
iside and have a good work ethic then call now for immediate 



Your Ad 
Here. 



By advertising in The Communicator, you could reach over 
5,000 students in just one week. 



Contact Aiden Bordner at IPSN Advertising at 
481 -6583 or ads@ipfwcommunicator.org 



Contact Jim Miller 



TRUGREEN ChemLawn 



QQ 



Hackery, smackery 



State of the Arts 

By Kelly Lynch 
klynch@ipfwcommunicator.org 



Lindsey Lohan z 
minutes. Actually, it wi 
and a half. Okay, it was just her v 



d have rather talked loAvriU.ivi- 



gne. 

But ! got through, darnit, thanks to a 
guy called the T-Mobile Terrorist, a celeb- 
hating hacker, 1 was able to get from Paris 
1 (iitoris cell plume dies, (In- dibits or Lohan 
and 500 other a-Miriiie* [and 1 still don't every pan of their 
know wlui one listed contact, "riggplant- 
dikeass" is). Maybe 1 could call and recom 
mend a doctor for that particular condi 



Jackson's cell phone files. I wonder if that 
snri of evidence is admissible in court. 

Alas, we lay people point and laugh at 
this series of unfortunate events. After all, 
they're rich and famous people and celebri- 
and all, and it's only fair. Right? 



Right? 

A part of me says, "Pfft. why n 
these famous, people surprised i 



And [he other 



s broadcast lor i 



Along with phone numbers, Hilton's 
emails, notes, photos and messages were 
also released to the public as well. One note 
spoke of getting a check from "Rick." 

Rick, for those of us who gave up stu- 
pid Hollywood stories for Lent, is the guy 
who appeared in Hilton's naughty videos. 



photi. 






len, last weekend, Fred Durst was 
stricken by the same hacker. This time, a 
really naughty video of him and a friend 
was released on the internet. Having not 
seen the video, I ponder if it is potentially 
the most artistic thing Mr. Limp Bizkil has 
dime in a long while. 

It's times like these when you wonder 
why the hacker doesn't try to get to Michael 



says, "Shoot. 
Wi- .ire dumb asses." 

These men and women work in the 
limelight. It's their faces, their bodies, their 
whatever, that we buy into for whatever 
purpose. We see George Clooney all the 
time in our living rooms and in the movies 
and he becomes a part of our lives. Part of 
our property. 

We shouldn't be surprised then when 
Hollywood wants to get glitzy and glammy 
and dress itself up for a big Oscar night be- 
cause, hey, it's only natural. These people 
work in the spotlight— why not play in it? 

Rut if you play with the sun, you risk 
getting burned. Or hacked. 

Mostly because people think celebri- 
ties are our whipping boys and punching 
bags. They're rich, why not? They're in ev- 
ery movie, why not? 

I still find it odd sometimes that hu- 
man beings elevate other human beings 



based on beauty and wealth. It makes sense, 
and maybe I'm just a little miffed about 
when I was 12-years-old and alt girls did 
was talk about the Backstreet Boys Pictures 
of these guys adorned lockers and bags and 
mi. ins ,md underwear drawers. 

Ugh. Why? 

Did you dream about them loving 
you? Did you dream about being famous, 
so you could rub elbows with other gor- 
geous people and at the end of the day relax 
in your hot tub with some bubbly? 

Alas, the cool thing to do these days 
may be to get your cell phone hacked. 
Durst's cell phone included an email mes- 
sage explaining thai he, mu\ coincidentally 
enough, Paris were in love. Very quaint. 
Express you and your feelings to others 
ihmugh hackery! 

That's computer hackery. Not the type 
of hackery where a A&amp;E columnist contini- 
ally grumbles about America's relationship 
with Hollywood, and the church of celeb-, 
rity worship so often populated by the citi- 

So, does being famous, regardless of 
talent (or not having it) mean you're worthy 
nf being hacked and invaded? Does success 
and money warrant this treatment? 

Well, if you're Paris Hilton, yes. 

But. if you're Steven Spielberg, no. The 



ililli'reni v- 



it should be obvious. 



'Sea' an inside look at ethics, disabil- 



(U-W1RE) You have to give Alejandro Ame- 
nabar credit. He does his darnedest to 
make "The Sea Inside," the tnie story of a 
paraplegic who fought to end his own life, 
something more, or at least something 
other than, an "issue movie." The copious 
symbolism, lyrical flashbacks and attempts 
at tender, understated character 



I hint i 

movie some arthoiise cred. The great irony, 
though, is that "The Sea Inside" is at its best 
when it lets loose with its most lurid movie- 
of-the-week cliches, when the soundtrack 
soars and we see children frolicking, cou- 
ples kissing, windmills turning, as our par- 
alyzed, beaming leading man goes off, to, 
1'iylir lor liis death. 



length of a film are difficult to deal with dy- 
namically and unsentimentally, Amenabar 
throws in the' towel on the second point, 
having Javier Bardcm, as famed euthana- 
sia advocate Ramon Sampedro. But though 
the movie has no compunctions about be- 
ing an Oscar-time tearjerker, it is skillful 
enough to get us through it. 

As for the problem of making the sto- 
ry of a paraplegic seem kinetic, Amenabar 
chooses to deal with this in an amusingly 
direct way by occasionally hurling the cam- 
era out of Ramon Sampedro's window and 
rocketing across a diverse landscape be- 
fore eventually reaching the sea which, of 
course, is the protagonist's doom and sal- 
vation. The movie doesn't journey through 
Sampedro's psyche per se — indeed, we are 
mostly forced to take him at his word — but 
it represents his inner state in vague, ac- 
cessible terms, allowing us to appreciate 
...hiSpdMemrna.ui a, way that seems "lyrical" 
and as comfortable as possible. It is not the 
&gt; approach. 



matter. The i 

emotionally and politically, and the 
t.ikes a position and doesn't cotnpiom 
Oh. there's a certain amount of equivo 
tion, just so no one gets the wrong idea 
right-to-die activist is forced to commi 
that her organization doesn't go out and 
tell people to commit suicide; they support 
freedom, you see, "the freedom to live, the 
freedom to die" — but aside from that, Ame- 
nabar stands by his liberal stance. And in 
paradoxically making Sampedro's quest to 
die the meaning of his life, he finds an ef- 
fective framework in which to convey it. 

But when it works, it works, and it 
works best as a simple issue movie, a well- 
executed cinematic essay. Its starkest in- 
sights are practical — the idea of how dif- 
ficult is for a crippled man to end bis life 
is striking, for example — and its strongest 
mqments are rudimentary movje plea- 
sures — when acting, editing and music 
combine for a predictable visceral effect. 




Photo courtesy of the A 



REACTION: Shirley Phelps-Roper of theWestboro 
Baptist Church inTopeka, Kansas, protests in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts when the state passed an amendment 
allowing homosexual marriage. The church is planning on 
coming to Fort Wayne to protest Edwards' Productions 
production of "The Laramie Project." 

Ubegiv- 



i loi of publicity of I'red Phelps. 



ion about The Lan 

Ph el ps- Rope i 



ebye 



thedeaUiofShcpard. 



sion about our goal. Our goal is ( heri Sue ll.irlmau murder that 

to deliver the message, period, things like tins do happen in liirt 

I We iv.int In givi'l an iiMelln inallv W.ivne, " unted lllalock. 
honest view and education in the lilalmk made note that ac- 

scripiuivs Whal ihey say and wli.u tins with a wide variety of expert - 

they do not say." ence will parti, ipaie in ilie |&gt;er(or 



of i hurth. Ill.ilni.k believes llial I 



members of the Tec 
Project spent time ii 
terviewing die town': 
lecllng responses. 



plVM-llled in [i.iilneisliip in 



'The Sims' invade college campus 



By Ashley Johnson 



"Sims 2 University" is the 
long-awaited expansion pack to 
"The Sims 2," which will be re- 
leased March 1, and it takes the 

"University" transcends 
any college experience and al- 
lows players to go beyond 



dial look like hookahs, bonfirt 
rage behind the effervescent 

noise of garage bands a 



"It's not only a game, it's 
also a creative experience for the 
player," said Tim Letourneau, se- 



at Electronic Arts, creative head- 
quarters for the Sims. 

"University" builds nn "The 
Sims 2" with a new life stage. The 
game also adds new territory in 
the form of a college town for 
players to create and modify. 

For each neighborhood, 



ked through the fraternity and 
sorority parties, but also across 
campus amid a crowd of onlook- 



There are five life stages 
in "The Sims 2" compared with 
three in the original Sims. They 
begin life as infants and grow to 
toddlers followed by children, 
teens, adults and elders. 

In "University," Sims go 
from teen to young adult and 



containing anywhere from si 



for anything to happen, includ- 
ing pillow rights, water-balloon 
lights and streaking. 



and cell phones from vending 
machines. 

Sims who don't like their 
appearances can alter them with 
the plastic surgery tool. 

When Sims attend college, 
they can choose from 11 ma- 
jors, thus opening for new career 
tracks. History, art, biology and 
political science are just a few of 
[he majors offered. 

However, college, as we all 
know, is not all about partying 
and having a good time. That 
is why Sims who go completely 
astray can flunk out of college or 
just prolong the college experi- 

There are options for rais- 
ing grades and passing classes, 
such as fraternizing with prafes- 



The Art of f 

Grip Grin 



Developing Mingling Skills 
in Social Situations 



nior producer for Maxis Studio 


Not only can Sims run na- cret societies. 




Folic Acid 




Take it. Seriously. 


If / 1 t 


Take it now. r y.°u Needy 

to «..p „,„„.,,, „..„„, -T i4O0 mcs ^ 

^^ Take it every day. ' Daily! -^M 
Take it this way. 

An easy way to be sure you are getting enough is to 




Take our word for it. 


wrrmt 


n».d u ,« .Hough folic .dd ...r, d.,. It 1,.. b..„ 


IH 


r^dS3'IS»mto^*'.° """"' ""' "° m 


^t of Health 




I^HH 


Sn^S^SSSrCSKSSKtfl. — 



Wednesday 

March 23 2005 

4 p.m. - 7 p.m. 



Featuring: 

Karen Hickman 

Etiquette Consultant 

Fort Wayne Country Club 

Join other IPFW students as they network with more than 

50 alumni from various professions at this one-of-a-kind 

event where you will learn tips on 

how to mingle like a pro! 



Reservation Deadline: March 14, 2005 
$10 or 2/$15 



Academic Counseling &amp; Career Services— 109 Kettler Hall 

260-481-6595— www.ipfw.edu/accs 

Questions? Contact Kacee at ferrellk@iprw.edu 






Death Penalty 
Awareness 
Week continues 
at U. Notre 
Dame 

By Maddie Hanna 



IU-WIHI ) SOUTH BEND, Ind. 



jject underway, nrgani/.crs sa&gt; 

■ death penalty's contention 
:ure gives it special signiiit .ma 



caiholh institution -- university, 
school, parish -- no matter how 
big. to pul the mailers oT life and 
death front tenter," -.aid lay I : r* ■ c- 1 
l,andry. pastoral associate at I it I It' 
Mower I'arish involved in organiz- 
ing the awareness week. 

Landry said thai the death 
penalty debate wa&gt;- tied deeply to 
Catholicism. 

"To be human, in the deep- 
est pari of our hearts, is to seek 
reioru illation. I believe dial's the 
mission of the Church, 10 seek 
reconciliation with all people 
with Cod," Landry 

Kate Leahy, 
Dame Coalition I 
I Jeaih Penalty and member o( the 
week's planning committee, said 
the week was crucial in order to 
stimulate discussion and critical 
(bought among students. 

"I think we all see some kind 

death penalty." Icahy said. "I think 
events like this are important to 



moral, economic and legal." 

Regarding the Catholic per- 
speciive, Leahy said mat recent 
evenis where Pope |ohn Paul II 
lias spoken mil against the death 
penalty directly impact Notre 
Dame students. 

"I personally consider these 
evenis part of our duty to build 
that consensus |to end the death 
penaltyl," Leahy said. 

According to theology pro- 



death penalty have become in- 

i reasingly "rigorous." 

"While the prospect of the 
death penalty isn't closed out- 
right, the Pope says he can't see 
any situation when it would be 
necessary," Whitmore said. Whil- 
more said thai with the possibil- 
ity of life without parole, "it seems 
that society is duly protected." 

Although the Pope has made 
his opinion on the deatii penalty 
dear, Whitmore said that he feels 
many Catholics simply ignore his 
beliefs. 

"I think most Catholics are 
aware of the Pope's stance -- 1 
think they jusi fail to live up to 



A Gallup Poll in October 2004 
found Mi percent of Americans in 
favor of the death penalty, a drop 
from flu pert eni in I4H-1 This drop 
m support is primarily due to 
new DNA testing techniques that 
2 people innocent af- 



imliiiial science professor David 
Campbell said. 

Public opinion on most is- 
sues doesn't really change much 
over time, but the death penalty 
happens In lie an exception to 
that," Campbell said. 

Campbell said there has 
been a fail amount of variability in 
publk opinion towards the death 
penalty in the past 50 years, large- 
ly related to crime rates. However, 
despite these shifts in opinion, 
Campbell noted that at no point 
were a majority of Americans 

ii favor of the death penally. 
:urrently practiced in 3B 






"I would be surprised if pub- 
ln opinion in the U.S., at least in 
our lifetimes, changes against the 
death penalty." Camphell said. 

In the near future, Americans 
could expect to see greater pro- 



lo the appeals process. Campbell 

Whitmore said that while the 

death penally is contentious, there 
h debate on the topic 



(the death penalty) 
contentious," he said, "l wish 

more Catholics would be follow 
the Pope in his judgment about 



According to Death Penalty 

eness Week organizers, this is 
the first time an event like this has 
occurred on campus. Speeches 

and panel discussions featuring 



Now, 

there's no charge 
for incoming calls. 







Now, 

when people are wasting your time, they're not wasting your money. 1 R 



Unlimited CALL ME "Minutes 




Ask about our Nights &amp; Weekend 
starting at 7 p.m. and Picture Messagin 







~^\ US. Cellular 

We connect with yoic. 



Sttrdty ■&lt;) Stnfty MgM n) MMtend 
BC*nf (*■&lt;* 139 96 or NonK MmNy 
KHtr&lt;rrt Omjf toe Roamrg daga ■ 



rttnMMM*g rwtfm US. Cc*J*-ir«rcM&lt;lfft» and uagg phn. UnMM HMs 
of cAg w* unl ofcg wm tMn tram ngtnf &lt;*n m Sm rap m) -ate Aw i 

pt wCBJ S and m, UKrAaytmm ta mt»M' 



faw. wtfwgn. nwragi tf»rB» mO torn *&amp;/. SPSS 



■ M l HH l » -■ 

MraM vafil Matty rraugji Fnd* 9 p m. to S:S9 urt ml * ctjy 
n two war coramor xnin ag/tement ol tot anfl 
an rarty termretai tte Credl approval regjrwl Si 5 
cna m Uxal na mwrk gwnge and irMity may vwy 



THI ] COMMUNICATOR 



Sports 



IPFW 50 - Pan American 57 



IPFW37- Illinois 86 



Season ends for seniors 



Seniors Verea Bibbs and Coutney 
Nicley honored in final home game of 
2004-2005 season. 



IPFW routed by Fighting lllini, come up short on senior night 
against Texas-Pan American. Nicley looks to score 1 ,000th point 
in Independent Tournament. 



Verea Bibbs and Courtney Nicley were honored before 
the game against the visiting Broncs of Texas- Pan A 
and again after the contest. After the game, Coach r 

members Jenny Green and Kelly Boyd 
spoke of their leaders. 

"They are the foundation on which this whole program 
going to be built. Someday, they &lt;in' going "&gt; tome back 



2 buiit that' and they h 



and say 'w&lt; 
Patterson. 

Nicely had an emotional day as she was chasing down 
the 1,000-career point mark. She entered the game jus! twelve 
points back from the plateau. Late in the fourth quarter, she 
was fouled going for a lay-up while 

points away. At the Tine, ^ 



"They are the 
foundation on 
which this whole 
program is going 

to be built." 
-Coach Patterson 



Nicely missed her s 

She did not score again, ending the 

game with 999 career points. 

During the post-game cer- 
emony, Patterson presented her 
with the 1,000-point basketball 
anyway, stating that even though 
she did not hit the mark yet, he 
knew she would ii 
game, which will take plat 

"This is a kid who has grown up as much as anybody I 

have ever been around," said Patterson nl Ni. ley in the post- 
game ceremony. "She is a great athlete who plays as well as 
anyone." 

In addition to her 999 career points, Nicley passed the 
': mark earlier this seaM m. She currently sits at 
. The guard also has 1 14 stealsand 359 rebounds in 



of Nicely and fiibbs' liisi season i- Mastodons lm hide. I 
is a talk he had with Nicley's father, i 
i going to stay long. 
While Bibbs was not setting out for a point mark in her 
final home game, she did reach a signifies 
rebounding career. Bibbs pulled down rebound 600 for her 
IPFW uniform. 

' from Euclid, Ohio c; 
446 rebounds. Her high rebound game for tl 

Saturday, where she pulled down 12 

rebounds to go along with her 12 points for a double-double. 

Bibbs passed the 900-point mark in the game with 

Texas-Pan American. She now sits at 90U career points, also 

Is and 47 blocks. Her 47 bio ' 
fourth on IPFW'sall-t 

"She is a kid who v 



s basketball 

I wrapped up their regu- 

t week (splitting) 

their games 

Texas- Pan 

IPFW traveled 
Champ; 
Tuesday to do battle with the 
Fighting lllini. Sitting midway 
in the Big Ten standings, the 
lllini toppled the Mastodons 
86-37. By halftime, Illinois had 
already amassed a twenty- 
six-point lead on the heels of 

TOP: Coach Patterson 

. .agnizes his seniors 

after the Pan Am game. 

BOTTOM RIGHT: A misty- 
eyed Courtney Ntcley 
thanks those who have 
supported her during her 
career at IPFW. 



Tiffanie 

Guthrie used a strong 
mid range jumper to help bury 
the Mastodons, hitting (i-uf- 13 



We told the kids before 
the game that 'this is just 
another gym, ; " 




Simon's historic career to end with March 5th game 




By Nick West 



Sim 



i said hr i 



s blocks, 

grateful jump hook-, and eratu footwork have 
charmed onlookers lor ihe p.isi three years. 

On Saturday. March 5, Simon will display 
those skills one last lime in an !P1W uniform 
Ihe Mastodon's 2IJU-I-05 season and Simon's 
final year will reach its end at the Memorial 
Coliseum against Utah Valley State. 

That game will seem just like any other, 



II bond with forward Justin 
Hawkins and roommate (Juiutiu Carouthers. 

Two of the most influential people in 
Simon's years at II'IVV have been a pair of for- 
mer assistants— ( I iff I.evingsnm and I'retitis 
Phillips. Simon said it has always been easier to 
relate with other "big men." 

Levingston was a center fur the ( hicago 
Bulls as was Phillips for Indiana Tech. 

Both coaches have had recent legal trou- 
bles, hut Simon is still in coot, n.l with I wings ton 
anil plans on re-establishing ties wiih Phillips 



Ihe h 



don'l really feel It, I guess, until thai last horn 
goes off. 1 haven't really thought about it 
much. It's going to' ' 



t leasi until (he last 

Simon said. "I knew him before he started 
ibout it too much," coaching here. He was the guy I always talked lo 
st how it goes every when I was on the bench, in practice or on the 
until it's over. You phone outside of practice." 

Quick to credit his other coaches. Simon 
it has always been easy 
say (how I will superiors' 



A team captain of two years. Simon said 
there have been many high points on the court 
for him, including earning .1 scholarship alter 
bis red-shirt freshman vear, cracking the starling 
lineup I 









g Academic 



By Chad Ryan / cryan@ipfwcom 



MARQUEE: In their win against Texas-Pan Am, senio 
David Simon scored 19 pts., pulled down nine re- 
bounds, and also had three blocks and three steals. 



n All-Independent 

"I should have got player of the year that 
year, too." Simon joked. Me averaged If) points, 
9.8 rebounds anil two blocks per game last sea- 
son. Brian Evans, of lexas ANM &lt; orpus Chrisii, 
was named Independent Player ol the Vear wiih 
averages ol I J points and l.i assists per game. 

Another high point in his college career, 
he said, has been making lile-long friends and 
connections in Fort Wayne. 

"I have been through a lot of guys that 
either didol make it through, didn't finish or 
graduated. Simon said I've kepi in touch wiih 
a lot of those guys." 



much older than 
he and are easy to talk (o. Interim head coach 
Joe Pechota is 33 and was an assistant during 
ihe previous two and a hall years of Simon's 
pl,i\ioi;da\s at ll'l W former head coach Doug 
Noll js ",]. hui Simon said he respected the man 
who hroughi him to fort Wayne and gave him a 
chance to play Division I basketball. 

Simon played volleyball and basketball 
during high school and earned a scholarship to 
p|, iv the tonoer at l.uvol.i-f .lik ago. Me played 
his freshman vear there before being recruited 
bv \oll to plav basketball ai IPIW. Simon trans- 
ferred m &gt;M.)\ and red-shirted his first year at 
IPFW to serve a NCAA residence requirement. 
He tore the anterior i ruciate ligament in his left 
knee do ring. i shout -a- round with (earn mates in 
the spring of 2002. 

"It was rough. Simon said about his first 
year at IPFW. "I hadn't ever played college bas- 

► SIMON: Page B3 



the b» ihe next headci 
? men's basketball program), 
I am going to ask him for just 
tiny favor. 

Jlease r 
3achTra _ 
t head coach of the 
s basketball program. 
is not my job to tell Mr. 
Pope how to do his job, but it 
would seem to be that of all of 
the candidates that have applied 
f job, lean not see 
how any could be more qualified 
than Dildy (unless Phil lackson 
has applied). His resume looks 
: that would appear in 
the pile of Indiana University 



ias been an assistant coach in 
he NCAA for 15 years, yet has 

i head coaching job. Now, he 

back near his Chicago-area 
s and build a program. Mr. 
Pope, Dildy is your guy. 

Interim Head Coach loe 
echota has done a fantasic 
, &gt;b. To all the people in the 
Fort Wayne sports media who 
doubted the decision to fire 
former coach Doug Noll, allow 
say this, 'I TOLD YOU 



Undefeated . 

Incredible! Let me be the first 
say that Pechota deserves a 



► DILDY: Page B3 



IPFW loses disputed Valpo game, pommels Texas-Pan Am 



By Eric Mishler 



On their road trip to V.ilp.inaiso mi Wednesday, Ihe men's 
basketball team weni ioc lo toe with the Crusaders but were 
unable lo close with a victory. 

IPFW had lour players in double figures on Wednesday 
night Including David Simon (26). Pete Campbell (13), Quinlin 
Caroulhcrs 110} and beau Hatier (10). Simon also led Ihe learn 

Valparaiso, led by Dan Oppland with 21 points and 8 
rebounds, also bad four players in double figures. 

Ron Howard (18). larryd Uiyd (14) and Kenny Harris (13) 
were also high scores lor (be Crusaders h looked liked Valparaiso 
was about to pull away ,n the end of regulation but a clutch triple 
by Campbell and a sott jumpc-i by Cirouibers lied the game at 64 



i against the University of Texas Pan Amei 

n January 31 by the score of 83-74 but 
it was a much different story on Sunday. 

The Mastodons rolled to a 17 point victory by laying the 
defensive smack down on the lirones I he (i(i--19 victory marked 
the largest win margin lor I lie Masiodons suite (he first game loe 
Pechotatook over as he. id coach againsi Youngsiown State. 

IPFW forced 16 turnovers and held UTPA to 30% shooting 
from the field. 

In fact, the Bmocsdid noi have any players in double bgi 
as l-.ric Montalvo and Sergio Sanchez shared 
only 7 points a piece. 



[ ol ll 






Simon on the bench a 



Pete ( amphel! who hit I 
during the run. 

points of IPFW ir 



) triples and finished a three point play 
; right after UTPA pulled within three 



dhalf 






, ihe Masiodons 



• watched the last fraihon of ,i second tick away as th 
handed their twenty lirsi loss ol the season. 

Not only did IPFW out shoot the Crusaders 50.9% t 



Campbell ami snpliniiinre guard Heau Bauer 
double figures with II points each. 

Rebounds were huge lor the M.istudons ,is they pulled down 
10 more boards than UTPA in this contest giving them a 24-7 
advantage in second chance points. 

The Masiodons also ruled ihe paint in ibis victory as they 
doubled the Bronc's points down low ~~ 



Unfortunately, IPFW yvas out-rebounded by Valparais 

the count of V\-Z l ) giving the ( rusaders ,i slight advantage ii 
paint. A slight advantage means everything in a game th 
decided by 2 points. 

On Sunday night, hack at the Coliseum, the \ 






lory improved the Mastodons remrd to 7-21 and 
Drones to 12-15. 

•n play there last regular season game at home this 
urday (March 5) ag.iinsi Huh Vallev Slate at 7:05p.m. 
Another late season victory on Saturday might spark some 

about getting these young men it 
r than later. 




By Chad Ryan / tiy.irripkvcc 



ELEVATION: Carouthers went 4-of-7 from the field to 
score 8 pts. in the victory over the Broncs. 



Cardinals defeat Mastodons in four games 



By Tony Maurer 



The IPFW melt's volleyball team traveled to Muncie to 
face the Ball State* Cardinals in a M1VA conference match 
up. The Cardinals proved to be loo much for Arnie's Army, 
defeating IPFW in lour panics to take the match. 

Sophomore outside hitler Nick Meyer was the stand 
out for the Cardinals, leading ihe te.iin with 28 kills, seven 
digs and four block assists, hvan Berg chipped in 14 kills 
and ten digs for Ball Stale as well. 

For the Mastodons, senior opposite hitter Matt 
Zbyszewski lead with I :"&gt; kills and eight digs. Sophomore 
outside liittci lush i (dims was die only other Mastodon to 
reach double digit kills with 11. 

Defensively. IPFW out-blocked the Cardinals 14 i 



M1VA IPFW is (.-(. overall and 4-'! in the MIVA. IPFW 
ting in fourth in the conference, but with the win, Ball State 
is right behind them in fifth. Loyola, Ohio State and Lewis 
still occupy the top three spots in the conference. 

Loyola is 13-1 overall and 7-1 in the conference. Ohio 
State shares the top spot in the conlerence with a 3-0 record 
against MIVA opponents, and a 10-4 overall record. Lewis 
is in second with an (!-!&gt; overall and 6-1 conference record 
(standings are as of Feb. 25, 2005). 

Statistically, the Mastodons are still very much in the 
hunt for me conference championship I liey have rematch- 
es against all three of the teams ahead of them in the con- 
ference, including their next match against Ohio State on 
March 4. The contest will be played in St. John Arena on the 
campus at Ohio State, and it starts at 7 p.m. 



Baseball splits with EKU, loses to Bradley 



Ihe baseball learn opened their sea- 
last yveekend winning l-of-3 games 
i the campus of Eastern Kentucky. The 



Tony Wells' third double of the game. With 
the game tied at Five, Bryan Stevenson hit 
a two-run single to put the Colonels ahead 
for good. Junior Ryan Keena yvas the only 
IPFW batter to record multiple hits on the 
day. Keena also had an ItBI and run scored. 
On Saturday, die Mastodons looked to 



n the first three innings. 
ullin Walker was solid on the after- 
Mriking out seven Mastodons |nsh 



In the opening i 
Colonels. IPFW jumped 
lead in the first inning due to the troubled 
pitching of Eastern Kentucky starter Shane 
Zegarac. A freshman, Zegarac yvalked four 
batters and threw two wild pitches.The only 
actual hit of the five run first inning was 
born junior Sean Kirk. 

"I think that set some type of a tempo 
where we got in a passive aggressive mind- 
set." said Coach Billy Gernon. "We want to 
take pride in getting aggressive at the plate 
and we didn't." 

In the fourth inning, EKU started 
to mount a comeback on IPFW pitcher 
David Zachary. Two runs into the comeback 
attempt, Cemon pulled Zachary and opted 
tor sophomore Irevor Carpenter. 

But Carpenter did not have any better 
Tuck in his time on the mound. The con- 
tinued EKU comeback was highlighted by 



th the Braves. 



"I thought we lacked ; __ 
thought we lacked enthusiasm and let t 
other team dictate the entire team," noted 
Gernon. » 

The Masiodons hitting, while not 
recording any runs, opened up a bit from 
Friday's game. Two juniors, Zach Walton 
and "Pyler Fowler were 2-for-3 on the day 
in the loss. Sunday opened up big for the 
Mastodons in their 1 p.m. re-match with 
Eastern Kentucky. Even though the Colonels 
beat IPFW on Friday, the Mastodons came 
out fighting hard, l-.ric Lambert was crucial 
on the mound, striking out three in his five 
innings of work. But more than his pitch- 
ing. Lambert gave the team a much needed 
boost according to Gernon. 

"For me, it yvas great to see Eric 



the mound that really gave our team the 
chance to win," said Gernon. "You need 
that from upperclassmen when you are on 
a skid, ll was good emotion and I think we 
not a lilt Irom him." 

Senior Ryan Steinbach finally found 
his hitting stroke, going 4-for-5 and scor- 
ing three runs. The shortstop also had two 
stolen bases on the day. The team record- 
ed nine stolen bases on Sunday in nine 
attempts. 

IPFW stole 13 bases on the weekend 
in 14 attempts. 

After the Mastodons got on a roll, 
Eastern Kentucky made a comeback in the 
sixth. The Colonels scored four runs in the 
inning to pull the game to 10-7. But the 
high-powered pitching rotation only gave 



.1 of the day. As ihe game 



"All in all, looking ai the whole ueek- 

I would give our club a B grade." 

" Gernon. "1 believe 1(10 percent 

that however much energy and passion we 

bring to the field will determine how good 



II be." 



play from March A 
Spring Break Trip, opening up v 

Hall on Friday, March 4. 



t IMG 



Valpo game was foul 



It has been a week (Feb. 
since the IPFW men"s bas- 

iall team losi a controversial 
rtime road game to Mid- 
itineni Conference power 
mraiso. 74-72. But IPFW 



IPFW athletic director 
Mark Pope said he was disap- 
pointed, head coach (oePechota 
said the play looked fine to him 



knock down both free throws 
with under a second left to tie 
the game and send it to a sec- 
ond overtime, a truly pressure- 



Simon's left shoulder and ; 
as Simon was receiving the 
inlet pass with his right hand. 
Simon's left arm appears to 

swing out as Oppland basically 
slides off of the 260-pound cen- 

"lt yvasn't a foul that 1 yvas 
expecting them to call against 









They pushed the ball 
■ court, threw an inlet 
inon who dunked the 
e the game with 0.02 
eft.sendingit t 



they would call against me," 
i puzzled when 



Carouthers before the 
game started that they knew it 
iference game and 



But a referee t 
..I.e 



that they would try ti 



eall 



again.. .. a refereeATTHE HALF- 
COURT LINE called a offensive 
foul on Simon and waved off 

the basket, subsequently giving 
Valparaiso the victory. 

The official, Bo Boroski, 
said Simon "hooked"' his oppo- 
nent, Dan Oppland, while spin- 
ning to the basket for the game- 
tying dunk. 

Another referee three feet 
from Simon and Oppland and 
clearly in better position did 



fouled him all." 

Simon called Oppland ' 
real good guy." He said the tw 

friendly i 



Simon after the § 



free throw line. 

That's a smart coaching 
philosophy byValparaiso. Make 



the first 

time any referee has ever said 
anything like that to Simon in 
his two years as team captain. 

It is widely known during 
basketball games at most any 

level and with IPFW's 
lack of conference affiliation, 
the team faces more adversity 
on the road when playing pro- 
grams that are in conferences. 
The Valparaiso game was obvi- 
ously not an exception. 

Sophomore guard Bauer 
said the calls against IPFW, who 
was whistled for 27 personal 
fouls to Valparaiso's 16. were the 
same as any other road game, 
but the magnitude and timing 
was at crucial points during the 

"There was no way it was 
a foul," said Bauer, who fouled 
out late in the second half, 
about the final play in over- 
time. "We saw on film today 
&gt;. 25) there was a clip 
act samesetupyvith 
same play and we 



(Friday, F 

willi the t 



► VALPO: Page B3 



Buy and sell your current college 
textbooks at The Bookmark. 



We've recently expanded! 




Call Today: 484-B00K 

Located just south of the IPFW campus on 
North Anthony Blvd. next to Wooden Nickel. 



we Do Mondays 
Like No lPlace Else! 



jfeii/iL rt„ Enj0y a doubIe 

'£S3. AS"\^^&gt; order of fajiias 
(enough for iwo) 
for jusi $11! 

And 10 oz. original Top Shelf and 
Caribbean Margaritas are only $2* 





For* Wayne ■ 317 E. Coliseum Blvd. ■ 471-2979 



E53 



Montague used hci 4 • h &gt; r ■ &lt; &gt; -.homing from three- 
point range in amass her IJ points. Devin Reed 
added eight with six rebounds. 

1PFW fell behind early in the contest with 
inconsistent shooting 1 he Mastodons hit only 
G-of-28 baskets in the first half, going 2-of-l3 
from long distance Meanwhile, the Hroncs were 
;t all cylinders, knocking down 48 



for Texas-Pan/ 

"I do believe that emotion- played a huge 
pnrt of what happened. We couldn't shoot the 



"They IM^rtin ,mJ Murdoik' shot the ball 
pretty well in the second lull, those are two of 
the mature kids who we have Geneva hit a key 
three for us and it looked like we were going to 
take control." 

But the lead was short lived as the Broncs 
used back to back three pointers In Montague 
to pull closer to U'RY Shortly there after. IJIIW 
took the lead and didn't look too far back bibbs 
hitalay-up with two minutes to pla\ to pull IPFW 
within one, hut it was as close as they would get 



s the last UTPA bucket for just 



Nicely has 11 points to go along with the ! 
Bibbs on senior night. 

IPFW plays again in the Independent 



r, Martin bit a lay-up and an ensuing foul shot 
e the score at 30. 
Nicely, lohnna Lewis-Carlisle and Geneva 



cannot take my eyes off Dildy's 
resume. He brought in Bonzi 
Wells to Ball St. you say? And 
Quinton Richardson and Bobby 
Simmons to DePaul? Last time I 
checked, those guys are playing 
in the NBA right r 



e(NINE!) recruits for the 
Rebels for next season, inclu- 
ding two top prep players from 
the Chicago area. Accoding 
to Illinois Prep Bulls Eye, an 
Illinois prep recruiting 



players on the Mastodons ros- 
ter next season from Chicago, 
Dildy will already have a solid 
foundation from the Windy 



all expectations. Ball St. DePaul, 
Illinois-Chicago, Auburn, and 
now Ole Miss. Could IPFW be 
the next? 

I dearly hope so. While suc- 
cessful recruiting does not a 



'Dily is second t 









&gt; the Windy City' With thn= 



the school he i; 
think he would have any pro- 
blem selling IPFW to potential 



now) sway some of his Ole Miss 
recruits to join him at IPFW? 

Every place he has gone, the 
recruiting has succeeded above 



i building one? 
Pope has a tough deiisioi 
) make at the conclusion n 
le season Saturday. Allow nit 
j help him out, Dildy is you 
lan. You are not going to hue . 
tore qualified coach in the pi' 
f resumes than the one wi 



"It is such a priviledge to play at this level, 
•t many people get to do it," Bauer says. "When 
annot play the whole way through the game, it 
Is me. I don't want to leave the guys out there 



showing he can improve on those numbers this 

Bauer is averaging 10.4 points per game 

this season and is close to his three assists per 
game average ot a year ago wiih Saturday's season 
finale against I Mali Valley St. looming. Bauer has 



Bauer adds not only emotion but also 
a bit of trashtalking While he does not make it 
a priority to talk trash. Bauer believes it adds an 
element to the game. 

"I like being able to talk crap to people," 
Bauer said. "Hut not only that, but I talk to the 
offials a lot and trying to pomi stuff out to them. 
It's just the way lam." 

Bauer walked into perhaps the toughest 
job for a college freshman lasi season, starting as 
a point guard in the backcourt of a Div. I school. 
Bauer performed well, averaging 7.7 points per 
game and three assists a game in 28 games. 

"He showed us immediately that he 
could step in and lead a young team," Pechota 
says. "The best thing for him and us is that he is 



at the end of that year. That was 
kind of devastating because I 



It v 









t IPFW, accordi 
Simon. 

But things turned around 
the following season for Simon. 
He caught the eyes of NBA 
scouts and may have a future 
in the league. After last season 
he attended an NBA predraft 
camp in Chicago in May. This 



camp for seniors the first week 
of April in Port Beach, Virginia 
and the Chicago camp, again. 

end, Simon has found it tough 
juggle being a 



according to Simon, he league; 



orkout in front of NBA 

His goal is to reach the 
, but Simon knows there 
other semi-professional 



to play in and has not ruled 
out playing in Europe, if he 
fails to make an NBA roster. 
Simon said he would consider 
the United States leagues over 
Europe. 

Though his playing future 
seems to be headed in a posi- 
tive direction, Simon said he 
would never forgel his days at 
IPFW— on or off the court. 

"I wouldn't have traded it 
for the world," he said. "I made 
the right decision to come to 



i the United States 



saw Dave's arm come out again and that time it 
was worse than thai lasi play ( Simon's waived off 
dunk)." 

Bauer quesuiioiil the referee's motives. He 
went as far as saying that because IPFW is look- 
ing to join the Mid-Continent Conference that 
it would have looked bad for Valparaiso to lose 
a home game to an aspiring member; therefore, 
the referees were worried and made calls against 
IPFW. Bauer said there were numerous calls in 
the game, nol just the final play, that were ques- 



"It looked good to me," ll'FW'siiitenin head 
coach said abi m I tin- final play. "It was a play that 
happened numerous times before in the game 
and wasn't called. They had done the same thing; 
we had done the same thing. So why make that 
call riglu i here.' I have no idea." 

I have talked to Pechota just a tew times 
since he was named interim head coach six 
weeks ago and have conversed with people who 
have interviewed him. 

We all share a similar conclusion: Pechota 
shoots straight from the hip. He doesn't beat 
around the bush or dodge questions. If you 
want an answer, he'll give you one So ivhc-n his 
echoed Bauer's about questionable 
ing all game long, then maybe there was a 
; problem. 

Ate are used to it on the road," Pechota 
'We kind of have a formula on the road 
you have to be eight points or better, and 



Pechota said Valparaiso assistant coach 
Rex Walters approached him immediaiel\ alier 
the game and apologized about the officiating 
Valparaiso's athletic director Mark LaBarbera 
and assisiant athletic director Kobb Vessely even 
flagged Pechota down before IPFW's bus left 
Valparaiso and were "somewhat apologetic" 
about the entire game's ofl'k i.mng. according to 

Pechota phoned John Adams, the Hun/on 
League's supervisor nl men's basketball olfii ills, 
and asked him to remove Boroski from the group 
of officials at IPFW's home game on Feb. 27. 
Adams complied. 



Through this ordeal, Pope has acknowl- 
edged Pechota's professionalism and the sports- 
manship lioih he and the IPFW players showed 
immediately after the game was over. 

"Sportsmanship has got to be the single 

most important component ol what we a red g 

here as student athletes," Pope said. "We need to 
learn it and we need to teach it." 

Pope said he did not see any value in con- 
tacting Mid-Con orValparaiso officials about the 

"We took the high road when the game 
was over," he said. "Their coaches and athletic 
director apologized for the way the situation 
developed. That's enough, we don't need to take 




YOU'VE 

NEVER LIVED 

LIKE THIS 




\f 



f different ways this season," Bauer said. "And 
we are playing much belter this latter hall of the 
season, hopefully we can lake it as a springboard 

Without senior star David Simon next 

season, the load on the backcourt will probably 
be even greater next season. Is Bauer and his 
hjckomi males up to the task? 

"We have very intelligent guards," 
Pechota says "beau gets it done back there and 
he knows the way the game is supposed to be 
played. He will deli mi eh be ready to step up even 



IPFW Student Housing 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

4110 Crescent Avenue • Fort Wayne, IN 46815 
www.IPFWstudenthousing.com 



Professionally managed by t 



an Campus Communities 



skind of frustrating.*' 




Coaching search 

■ In the next few weeks a very important decision will be made in 
IPFW sports — the decision on who will be the new head coach for 
the men's basketball team next season 



233HI B33 

Emotion fuels Bauer 



By Nick West 

\H@ ipfwtommunk.imf.org 



(he lisi of head coaching 
didaf.es from around 12 10 six, 
including interim head coach 
Joe Pechola. 

"I am impressed with the 
overall quality of the resumes," 
Pope said. "The coaches 1 am 
still considering have done 
iheir homework." 

referred to was the candidates' 
Knowledge of IPFW, iis ever- 
seeking conference affilia- 



schedule and sprinkle it v 
required amount of "guarantee 
games." 



i lofty paycheck b 

it helps that large school fill out 

its season scheduling require- 

Pope declined to name 
candidates to protect their pri- 
vacy, but said he would elir 



telling me thai he \ 
ested in IPFW becam 
a job open and he \ 

coach," Pope said. 



i coach the period begins. 

s inter- That would set the date to 

nted to An advisory committee 

to head thai has helped Pope in the 
lat was coaching search includes for- 
in my mer IPFW baskethall players 
Jim Morlan and Pal Murphy, 
s were, former Purdue basketball play- 
r Greg liifert. lournal l.a/etle 



be the fifth or 



"I am extraordinarily 
impressed with the 
number and quality 
of the applicants that 
have come forward. 
That tells me that a 
lot of the coaching 
community sees 
IPFW as a place with 
a real potential for 
greatness." 

- Mark Pope, 
Athletic Director 



) filter thu number 
down to around a dozen. 

Pope cited various rea- 
sons why he l 



t did 



; stack, but the most 

i because the appli- 

; have Division I 



series of obstacles but want to 
be that first person to leave an 
imprint on a university. 

Those are the kind of peo- 
ple 1 am looking for. 

As far as benefiting the 



said he and Pechota im!I lifely 
nvcan beprec- meet on Monday, March 7 or 
n knowing they Tuesday. March H a\m\ discuss 
Pechota's plans for the basket- 
ball program. 

Pope said he has put off an 
official interview with Pechota 
because the interim head coach 
is busy finishing the 



;, dis- March 5. 

a aca- "I am extraordinarily 

to NCAA impressed with the number 

coaching and quality of the applicants 

that have come Forward," Pope 

to hear finished. "That tells me that a 

t of the coaching community 

:t IPFW into a conference. sees IPFW as a place with area! 

Because the national sign- potential for great: 



coaching or playing experience, 
a requirement of the position. 

Pope conducted hour- 
long interviews with each of the 
12 remaining applicants and 
was able to eliminate eight. 

A few factors lead to his 
decisions but the slicking point ing period for recruits begins we mold the short-t 
was when Pope realized those on April 15, Pope said his ideal of IPFW basketball i 
applicants simply wanted a scenario would allow two to be dictated by how t 
head-coaching job and did not three weeks for the new head vision that new coacl 






noticed. 
IPFW sophomore guard Beau Bauer still "You could just s 

vividly remembers the only time he has been the game," says IPFW it 
thrown out of a game. 



When IPFW was looking to bring Bauer into 
nix with the Mastodons, his passion on the 
of the first things the coaching staff 



his passion for 
i head coach loe 
Pechota, who was an assistant when Bauer was 
vgradeand there was a loose brought in. "We fell he brought an attitude to the 
ball," Bauer says. ' I went logei the ball and dove floor thai would fit in very well with our crop of 
on it. I tried to rip the ball away from the other players Hehasshown his ability to lead." 
guy. and next thing I know we were throwing While Bauer loves being on the court, he 

punches. Yeah, 1 got thrown out for that." equally hales not being out lo help the V 



e decided. 



► BAUER: Page B3 



Bauer has made a name for himself being few limes this season, Bauer has been seem with 
as emotional a player as you will ever see on the tears in his eyes aher fouling out in a game, parti- 
basketliall court. His passion sumetimesd gets cularly in a game that has yetti 
ihe best of him. like in Hth^rade. hut for theme 
part he keeps his emotions in check enough n 
to get in too much trouble. 

"I like to laJk on the fio 

Bauer says. "It raises the le 
ul competition and it fires i 
up and, hopefully, it rubs off 



usually get a 
fired up off dunks &lt; 
great passes, 






|J.1SSl(JII, 



fired up with his 
sophomore guard 
one says. "He leaves 
il all on the floor, he just loves 
being out there." 

Bauer has always been 
the type of emotional player 
that he is now. but early in his 
basketball career he did lake 
things too hard. Many 



and be mad at the world after 
loss. He has learned to cui 
ttail those emoiions as he ha 
grown older. 

"Half the time when 
would get mad after a loss 
would get in trouble with m 
parents," Bauer says. "I knew 
had to stop being like that if 
was going to be successful." 

emotional play to his parents, 
especially his father, who pla- 
yed basketball through high 
school. 

"I think both lof my 
parents) have contributed to 
the way I play," Bauer says. 
They have the passion in them 







- did 



get in the way of school, howe- 
ver. While Beau was a bit of a 
troublemaker on the basketba- 
ll court, his behavior in school 
was impeccable. 



By Chad Ryan / ayan@ipfwcommunicator.o 



PLAYMAKER: Sophomore point guard. Beau Bauer 
put up 1 1 pts. in the win against Texas-Pan American. 




PC: No, 

other one was " Nine Feet of Pete,* because 

DV:What is your favorite Campbell's soup? 

■ PC Definitely got to go 



