The Communicator 



VOL. XXIII, ISSUE 22 



Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne 



March 5, 1992 



NEWS BRIEFS 



STUDENT ELECTIONS 
TO BE HELD SOON 

Any sludenl enrolled in al least one credil hour at IPFW may 
vole in the upcoming sludenls govcmmcnl elections. 

The elections will be held in Uie basement of Keillcr Hall, from 
8 a.m. lo 8 pjn.. on March 24 and 25. 

The election board requires all voters to present a picture I.D. 
before voling, 

KrisUna Frazier-Henry. cuncnl IPSGA president, said that stu- 
dents government is trying lo get more students involved in the 
elections ihis year. 

"I think last year we had about a 3 percent lumoui. This year 
wc are shooting for 5 percent," said Frazier-Henry. 

"Last year's problem was ihai wc had a loi of people run- 
ning uncomesied. I don't think that will happen tliis year," 
said FrazJcr-Henry. 

The election board has already received peiiiions from students 
wauling to run for the same office, said Frazier-Henry. 

"Vice president of student acUviiies is the key position up for 
election because they are ai a fork in the road, and they have to 
decide where lo go from here. This has not been a positive year 
for SAB," said Frazier-Henry. 

Siudems who want to run for office may pick up a petition 
in the students government office in Walb Memorial Union, 
Room 225. 

Students should return the completed petitions to the students 
government office no later thai 5 p.m. on March 9. 

Once the petitions are in, the election board will post the names 
of eligible students along with the offices for which ihose stu- 
dents are running. The names will be posted in ihe siudents gov- 
ernment office and at ihe information desk in Keitlcr Hall. 



STUDENT SENATE OPPOSES 
UNIVERSITY FEE INCREASES 

At the Feb. 28 meeiing, IPFW student senate sprung into action, 
opposing fee increases. 

The Purdue Board of Trustees plans to vole on six proposals 
that would increase different fees, including parking and traffic 
fines, tuition fees, lab fees, and student services fees, according lo 
Krisiina Frazier-Henry, president of IPSGA. 

In a report to the senate, Frazier-Henry said the IPFW adminis- 
tfaiion set forth a proposal lo raise tuition fees by 8 percent. 

Student services fees mighl jump to S2.50 per credit hour from 
the cunent $2.35 per credit hour fee. Gmduate and summer-ses- 
sion students face the possibility of joining the ranks of fee-pay- 
ing students. 

Also, the board will vote on a measure to raise the lab fees lo 
S23 per lab hour. 

Frazier-Henry slammed the proposals, saying, "They are a triple 
wammy for the sludeni body." 

Vice president of legislation. John Weisenbcrger, asked senators 
to volunteer to research the proposed fee increases. 

Felix Moxier recommended a speedy preparation and circula- 
tion of flyers. 

Victoria Vinson revived the spirit of the 60s with her proposed 
sit-in at the board meeting. 

Weisenbcrger noted that the meeting was open to siudents. and 
said, "If the students were to come out in force. 1 think that would 
make the best impression," 

The bill slates, "... IPSGA believes that the proposed increases 
in parking and traffic fmes are unf^ ... ." 

The bill was passed with one senator opposing the measure. 

In other business, the senate passed a resolution establishing an 
open Sludenl affairs forum. 

The forum will function under the auspices of the senate's 
student affairs committee. All IPFW students may anend 
the meetings to express concerns or complaints. The reso- 
lution guarantees that all such concerns and complaints of 
the students will be heard. 

Then two new senators, Maggie Milne and Tyra Richardson, 
were introduced at the meeting. They were appointed, by 
Weisenbcrger, to fill vacant senate seats. 

The nexl student senate meeiing will be March 5, at 3 p.m., in 
Walb Memorial Union. Room 114. 



OLYMPIC VOLLEYBALL TEAMS 
TO PLAY IN FORT WAYNE 

The U.S. volleyball team will compete against the Cuban 
national team at the Memorial Coliseum on Tuesday, March 17, 
at 7:30 p.m. 

IPFW students and senior citi«;ns will automatically receive a 
S2 discount on tickets. Others may get discount coupons at 
Scott's food stores. The regular ticket prices are S5. S8 and SIO 

Proceeds from the game will be donated to the Hilliard 
Gates Scholarship Fund, to raise money for the IPFW ath- 
letic department. 

Amie Ball, head coach of the IPFW men's volleyball team and 
director of the aibleiic department, said that gelling the teams to 
play in Fort Wayne was Ihe result of a joint effort of IPFW and 
the Coliseum. 

"A cooperaUon process between IPFW and the Coliseum made 
the event possible. The Coliseum has been active in getting 
major events to come to Fori Wayne," he said. 

Ball said that the Cuban team would be tough compelititon for 
the U.S. team, 

"We finished third in the World Cup competition and the 
Cubans placed firsL The competition will be close, the Cubans 
are a little bciu^r than we are. right now," said Ball. 

Ball commented that he knows some of the players. "I have 
coached over half the team, at some time or another. We have 
some close ties with some of the players. Al least four or five of 
the players have played in Fori Wayne at the collegiate level." 

"Anytime a worid class event comes to the area, IPFW is 
pleased to be associated with it. and it is on opponunily in add 
scholarship money to the Hilliard Gates campaign," said Ball, 



University addresses building's bad air 



Till 



By Rachel Gibson 
Staff Writer 

s something bad In the air 
Ihe Classroom Medical Build- 



Siudcnts and faculty members 
complained of illness. Classes 
were relocated to other buildings, 
and one professor even moved her 

"I've been sick all semester, and 
yet the university just wants you 
to stay quiet and in the back- 
ground," remarked Sally Green, a 
student 

IPFW officials blame ihe situa- 
tion on air circulation problems. 
Air quality reports filed by Purdue 
industrial hygienlsts affirm Ihis 



view, according to Don Katie 
physical plant administrator. 

Kaitcr said corrective changes 
have been made. 

The venlilaiion system used in 
Classroom Medical allows no new 
air to flow Uiio offices and class- 
rooms when temperatures arc sta- 
ble. Therefore, certain rooms 
have elevated carbon dioxide lev- 
els, according to Kaiier. 

Katter pointed out thai carbon 
dioxide is not a poisonous gas; but 
it displaces oxygen. 

However, people wiih breathing 
problems may have increased dif- 
ficulties titcausc of the situation, 
said Katter. 

Anne Colbcn, coordinator of the 



journalism program, said thai 
experienced discomfort because 
of the circulation problems. The 
ventilation problems aggravated 
her allergies, she said. 
However, Colbert said that she 

"I've been sick all 
semester, and yet the uni- 
versity jusl wants you to 
stay quiet and in the back- 
ground. " 
■Sally Green 

is pleased with the way the uni- 
versity Is handling the problem. 
"My perception is Ihat the univer- 
sity is bending over backwards lo 



help work out the air How prob- 
lems," she said. 

Steven Hollander, assistant pro- 
fessor of English and linguistics, 
expressed doubt in the efficiency 
of the university's handling of ihe 
problem. 

According to Hollander, things 
have gotten woisc In the building 
since 1988 when the air in the 
building was first tested. "Some 
people may have pcrmaneni lung 
problems. The university did 
nothing," he said. "Now in 1992, 
they seem to be correcting the 
problems. 

"They are working on It. I'm just 
not sure how fast anil how good of 
a job they're doing," Hollander 




Blues legend Thomas 
caps off celebration 



IPFW 

Thomas 
against e 



By Jim Walker 
Editor In Chief 

Blues legend Rufus Thomas 
says it like it is. 

"I'm not here because it's 
Black History Month or because 
I'm black I'm here because I'm 
history," Thomas told a large 
crowd ai IPFW Saturday night. 

Thomas was on campus to cap 
off a month of events conunemo- 
rating African -American history. 

Thomas is a blues singer, a 
top-rated radio disc jockey and a 
good friend of IPFW history 
professor Lxjuis Cantor. 

Cantor's new book, "Wheel- 
in" on Beale," chronicles the 
history of WDIA, the innova- 
tive Memphis radio station 
where he worked during the 
1950s. Cantor met Thomas 
when they worked together at 
the station. Cantor said Thomas 
played a big pari in his book. 

Cantor introduced Thomas 
with a brief history of WDIA, 
the first station to offer all 
black programming in the 
south. Cantor offered a short 
video history of Thomas and 
WDIA, including a taped per- 
formance of Thomas singing 
history professor Louis Cantor introduced Rufus ^}^ international hit song 
al a recent campus event. Here, Cantor is silhoucKed 
slide of radio deejay Theo Wude. 

Photo by Jim Walker 



"Walking the E)og." 

AUci taking the stage, the 75- 
year-old Thomas told the audi- 



ence how he achieved stardom, 
"That young black boy who set 
out to be one of the finest enter- 
tainers in the world now is one 
of the finest entertainers in the 
world. I'm talking about me," 
he said. 

I'm not brag^ng. I'm just saying 
you can be anything you want lo be," 

Ttomas said il wasn't an easy 
road. "When I was young I was 
told 'you ain't going to be any- 
body because you're black.' i 
used to have a problem because 
I had thick lips, a flat nose, and 
kinky hair. Now I have die same 
thick lips, fiat nose, and kinky 
hair and I'm fine!" 

"1 gel the biggest kick doing 
what somebody tells me I can't 
do," Thomas said. 

Afier speaking to the audience, 
Thomas showed off his lap danc- 
ing skills, The audientx cheered 
as he danced across the stage. 
"Not bad (or a 7S-year-old huh?" 
he said, "Now I'm ou! of breath." 

Thomas also performed two 
songs, accompanied by recorded 
music. He closed the event 
singing "God Bless America." 

Before he left the stage, Thomas 
told the crowd. "Always remem- 
ber this. It takes both the black 
and white keys of a piano to play 
'The Star Spangled Banner.' 
That's deep y'all." 



IPFW debaters qualify for nationals 



By Mike Wade 
News Editor 

Several members of IPFW Forcn- 
sics joked, persuaded, and criticized 
iheir way lo qualification for ihc 
national forensics competition . 

Tbc Indiana State Individual 
Events Tournament, hosted by 
IPFW on Feb. 22, boosted six of 
tbo^c members to the nalionil level. 

Keith Murphy, assistant professor 
of cammunicalion and director of 
IPFW Forensics, applauded tbe 
rinalLsu. "They put in a lot of bard 
work, and il showed in Iheir results. 
1 think they will represent the uni- 
vcfsiiy very sU'ongly al the national 
tournamenL" 

However. Murphy was disappoint- 
ed with IPFWs overall perfor- 
mance, IPFW ranked fifth in Ihe 
stale, 

Regina Kosloff. associate faculty 
member for ihc department of com- 
munication and the ossisiani coach 
of IPFW Forensics, enplained, "Wc 
lost a lot of students; Uiis has been a 
year of rebuilding for us," she said. 

The leam wanis to improve iis 



standing in nesi year s eompclilion, 
said Kostoff. 't&gt;Lir goal is to moke 
the lop Ibree nci;( year," 

Although Ihe learn wanls lo place 
higher nexl year, Kosloff said that 
Ihe team's ultimate goal is nol win- 
ning. 'We look more to Ihe educa- 
tional aspects of ihc lournamcnls 
than lo competitive success. Wo 
want the students lo come oway say- 
ing they learned somelhing," she 

Members of tbe leam said that they 
learned a great deal Irom tbc compc- 

"I'vc gotten a lot of self-esteem 
□ul of it, and I know how lo repre- 
sent myself well in front of others." 
said Lisa SandsUom. vice president 
of IPFW Forensics, 

Sandstrom catapulted herself into 
the national competition with her 
impromptu and duo interpretation 
presentations. Tetun member. Lynn 
Tuscan v/as Sandstiom's partner in 
Ihe duo inlcrprctatlon competition. 
Tuscan also advanced lo Ihc nation- 
al loumoment. 

Oiher students who made il lo Ihc 



nationals via Ihe Indiana Suite Indi- 
vidual Events Tournament were 
Tony Grober, poetry; Jerry Riger. 
thelorical criticism; Kelly Greene, 
after dinner speaking; and Kristi 
Herdman, prose, persuasion, and 
impromptu. 

Tbe finalisU said that Ihey are 
looking forward to tbe national com- 

'It's an exhilarating reeling. This 
will be my third year at nationals. 
I'm hoping for four." said tjraber, 
presidcnl of the team, '1 was getting 
worried about making it. You've 
jusl got 10 give il your all." 

Greene, who placed in tbc event, 
explained after dinner speaking. 
"Basically, it's just a speech, infor- 
mative or persuasive, that uses com- 
edy. The comedy makes il a little 
more interesting for the audience," 
she said, 

"I'm really excited to t&gt;c going lo 
nationals; it will bo a lot of fun," 
Greene said. 

Both Greene end Graber said, 
allbougb they were pleased with 
Itieir leap lo nationals, ihey were dis- 



appointed Ihal Ihc team as a whole 
did nol place higher than nrUi. 

Sandstrom, on Ihc other band, said 
thai she thought the leam did well. 
'1 was pleased with the team's per- 
formance. Since wc are in a building 
period, it was a good showing for 
us," she said. 

Members of Ihe team have one 
more chance lo qualify for Ibe 
nationals. The team will travel to 
Northern Kentucky University this 
weekend for tbe final tournament 
before tbe national competition. 

The leam hopes lo grow before 
compeling nexl year. Sandsliom 
said that she got u lot out of being a 
member on ibe leam and liked the 
fael tbal the team welcomed anyone 
interested in joining, regardless of 
Speaking ability. 

"I really enjoy Forensics. You 
meet an awful lot of good folks and 
make some good friends when 
you're on the leam," she said. 

The finalists will move on lo Ihc 
national competition al Mankoio 
State University in Mankalo, Minn . 



Expert offers tips for self defense 



By Sarah Jakacky 
Features Editor 

It's laic. It's dark. You are all 
alone. Suddenly someone jumps 
out of tbe shadows and grabs you 
from behind. A struggle ensues. 

This may be a typical scenario 
on late-night horror flics, bul 
Rick Ross, karate insunicior, said 
this is a reality for many women. 

As part of Women's History 
Month, which is focusing on top- 
ics relative to all women, Ross 
was a featured guest at IPFW on 
Monday. His focus was to teach 
basic self-defense techniques. Me 
said Ihe main reason woman arc 
attacked is because they appear to 
be weaker and smaller than Ihc 
attacker. 

'The people who are going to 
attack someone seek out those 



who look like victims and seem 
like easy prey," Ross said. 

Although it is best to avoid situa- 
tions where self defense Is neces- 
sary, Ross said, women need to 
know how to protect themselves. 

The first thing to do, Ross said, 
is yell and scream as loudly as 
possible. He said this will slorUe 
tbc assailant, alert others of the 
siluatlon, and give the victim a 
psychological edge. 

Because attackers will be 
stunned by the victim's initial 
response, Ross said many of the 
attackers will take off, 

Ross said the second step of self 
defense Is to hit the atiacker. The 
most effective way to do this, he 
said. Is 10 use an open hand with 
the fingers extended. This expos- 
es tbe heel of Ihe hand, which has 



tlie most power, said Ross, Also, 
he said this method prevents self- 
inflicted finger injuries. Ross 
added that victims should aim for 
the nose when delivering the ini- 
tial blow. 

Among the many demonstra- 
tions, Ross displayed the most 
common forms of attack. These 
included arm and hair pulling, 
wrist twisting, attacks from Ihe 
front, attacks from behind, head 
locks, chokes, and ground pins. 
He said the worst situation to 
ever be in Is to be pinned to the 
ground stomach down. 

Ross said Ibe basic steps lo 
fighting back include a series of 
blows to the attacker, Vuhicrable 
spots to aim for include the groin, 
the nose, the eyes, the knees, and 
the ears, said Ross, 



"A good kick or hit to any of 
these places will drop most peo- 
ple right away and with a little 
practice you can hit very hard," 
Ross said. He added Ihal victims 
should target the knees so the 
attacker can not chase them. 

The average confrontation lasts 
from 10 to 15 seconds, Ross said 
that if the fighi lasts longer the 
odds of escaping unharmed great- 
ly decrease. Ross said the object 
of his self-defense tips is to allow 
enough time for the victim to gel 
away. 

However, Ross added, "I don't 
teach control. If someone is 
going lo attack you. they are fair 
game to whatever you do to 
defend yourself. I tell people 
they should worry about the 
legalities later." 



said. 

Katter said the university has a 
program to lei a consiani airflow 
Into the rooms, but that such a 
measure would make the rooms 
colder. 

The air in Classroom Medical 
Building was checked again this 
week. In an attempt to determine 
Ihe effectiveness of the modifica- 
tions. 

If changes fall to Improve Ihe 
situation the entire ventilation sys- 
tem may need to be altered. "The 
people coming up from Purdue 
this week are testing to see If the 
modifications have helped," Kat- 



Fine increase 
to serve 
as deterrent 

By Chad Hesling 
Managing Editor 

The Purdue Board of Trustees 
will vole, on March 20, on a set 
of proposed parking and traffic 
violation fine increases. 

The IPFW police department 
put forth Ihe proposed fines. 
The excessive number of traffic 
and parking violations warrant 
the fine increases, said Paul 
Strouts, interim chief of police 
and director of safety. 

"What we arc looking for is 
stronger deienenis to these vio- 
lations," said Strouts, "A lot of 
tickets are written on campus, 
100 many in fact." 

According lo universily police 
records, over 51,000 tickets 
were issued during the years 
1988-91. Over 15,000 of those 
were issued in 1991, 

According to Sirouis, fines 
have not been reviewed in 12 
years, Tbe timing of the propos- 
als was bad in light of the other 
increases in front of the board, 
said Strouts, 

"(The police) wilt try to assess 
fines more frequently, so we 
won't have such a big hil next 
time," said Snouts. 

Strouts denied Ihat the increases 
were meant to enhance university 
revenues, "If anylbine. ihe rev- 
enues will drop," he said, "Students 
can choose nol to pay the increased 
fines by parking correcdy," 

"What we are looking for 
is stronger deterrents to 
these violations. " 
-Paul Strouts 

Student body president Kristina 
Frazier-Henry disagreed with 
Strouts. "I don't feel the fine 
inaease will act as a real deterrent 
lo parking violations. 1 think the 
majority of people are going to 
park where they want," she said. 

Frazier-Henry feels that cerlain 
violations, tike ones concerning 
handicapped parking, fire lane 
violations, and moving violations 
require increases. "I think Ihe 
safety issues are the ones that 
should be fined hard," she said. 

Victoria Vinson, a student sen- 
ator, spearheaded efforts to 
voice student opposition. Sena- 
tors circulated petitions that wiU 
be presented to the board. 

Vinson said that she was pleased 
with student response. "Students 
seem to be prcity upset about the 
fine increases," she said, 

Vinson noted that a small per- 
centage of the students approve 
of increases as a way to increase 
IPFW revenues, 

IPFW student Lori Martin was 
disappointed Ihat the police 
would increase the fines in an 
attempt to deier people from 
parking in violation of tbe uni- 
versity code, 

"If the fine increase is meant to 
be deterrent, the university 
should have planned ahead and 
made the parking garage large 
enough to provide adequate 
parking The police would then 
have fewer violations to deal 
with," she said. 

"The average student can't 
afford these fines. Most come 
here because it's inexpensive, 
but with the innease that is no 
longer true," said Vinson. 



Opinion 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Tliursday. March S, 1991 



The Communicator 



Edilorlal Board 



Mike Wade 

News Editor 



Joe Heersche 

Sports Editor 



Jim Waiker 

Editor in Chief 



Tina Holaton 
Copy Editor 



Chris Sheldon 

Photo Editor 



Chad Nesting 

Managing Editor 



Sarah Jokacky 

pBalures Editor 



John Gruse 

Illustrator 



Dorle Reynolds Joyce Stocks 

PublishBr Advertising Manager 

Th9 Communicatof is published on Thursday mornings when dassss are in session by Indiana -Purdue Studenr 
Newspapers, Inc., a not-for-pron organization incorporated in the slate ol Indiana 

Opinion eapressed in The Communicator Is that of the writer, or in the case ol unsigned editorials, thai of the sditori- 
o1 board ollhe newspaper, and Is not to be construed as representing Ihelot the university administration, Ihelaeul- 
ty. or the students. 

The edilonol and business otfices ol The Comrnunicalot are located In Suite 215 ol the Walb Memoral Union, Indi- 
ana Unrvarsity-Purdue University at Fort Wayne, 2101 Coliseum Blvd. E,, Fort Wayne, Ind. 46B05 



Proposed fine increases 
are unfair to students 



Finding a puking space in an IPFW lot can t* a 
tO'ing experience. That's a fact even one-time visi- 
tors to this cinipus will find out the hard way. 

Traffic tie-ups on IPFW roads can be just as irrilal- 
ing for drivers as well. Mid-mominE and noon-time 
jams are frequent on the road front of Kctller Hall 
and at the Crescent Avenue entrance, 

IPFW students, then, have a right to be angered 
about a proposal put fnrth by the campus police 
departmenl to raise the Tines charged for parking 
and traffic violations. 

The ofrictal reason ^vcn for the fine increases is 
that tbcy will act as a deterrent to violators. That's 
fine: public safety should be kept as the first priori- 

ly 

Were the smell of money not so pervasive over the 
whole mailer, it migbl be believable. 

The police department is also rationalizing Ibe 
increases by telling us that the new penalties will 
bring IPFW up to speed with other area campuses 
and the present rates haven't been reviewed in 12 

The tacit half of these rationales is that more mon- 
ey will be coming in per citation and that money is 
needed. This way, IPFW could charge market- value 
fmes and make new revenues it is now cheating 
itself out of. 

It is the IPFW student paying those fines. Grum- 
bling among the students over parking conditions 
has gone on for years. 

It isn't uncommon to see the orange "Lot Full" sign 
in the B lot enirancc dunng the day. The free park- 



ing lot on the north side of campus now contains 
more cars, on any given day, than it did last year. 
Several parking meters in front of Classroom Medi- 
cal Building and the lot south of the Hclmke library, 
have long been in disrepair. 

All of this, in spile of the expensive construction 
of the new parking garage. The new garage hasn't 
really alleviated parking congestion much, though 
the garage is often fUled with cars. 

New roads created around the parking garage have 
helped on-campus congestion some; however, exit- 
ing campus between class periods onto Crescent 
Avenue and Coliseum Boulevard still means some 
wailing in your car, especially early in the semester. 

An additional factor comes into play here. Cam- 
pus police have been perceived as being overzealous 
in dealing out citations. Getting fined double, triple, 
or quadruple the old fees will be seen as unneces- 
sary gouging, especially when added to proposed 
bikes in lab fees, student service fees, and tuition. 

The bottom line is this: students would probably 
understand the proposed increases if they felt the 
university was giving them a fair deal with the rev- 
enues. A fully-staffed police department, belter 
campus lighting, smoother traffic flow, and more 
parking spaces are the things students 



Nobody really questions that vehicle violations 
should be enforced, but the university must show 
that fees will t&gt;c reinvcsied in the campus before stu- 
dents will sii still for a rate increase. 



Letter from the editor 



To the Students: 

Last week's Coirununicator contained over 30 typo- 
graphical errors. 

Some of them were on the front page. Letter writers 
opened the paper to sec tbcir words switched around. 
The spoils page was messed up. 

Students hnve asked these questions. Don't you copy 
edit? Don*i you look at the paper when you lay it out? 
Don't you have computers to catch your stupid errors, 
this is 1992? The answers are yes, no and no. 

We try to calcb errors before the papers hit the news 
stands liut ihc inefficieni and expensive system we use 
to publish makes this difficulL 

Of these 30 or so typographical errors, 99 percent were 
made by the printer we pay to typeset and lay out this 
paper. 

The edhorial staff and the writers type their stories on 
paper, their work is checked by our copy editor and then 
the finished product is sent to a private printer. The 
printer then types the stories again into o computer, 
prints the copy and lays uut the copy on the pages. The 
editors send them a dummy layout showing where tb put 
the stories. 

There ore problems with having an outside printer put 
togcUicr our newspaper. First. Lbey have no eunncction 
to the newspaper, so there is really no reason for them to 
take a special pride in putting it together. I'm not really 
knocking bow they do tbcir jobs, but why would they 
really care so much how the paper looks, their names 
appear nowhere in the staff box. 

Last week Christiane Seller's letter to the editor 
appeared on Ibis page. But when she read it, the letter 
was not the same. Words were omitted and her sentences 
were turned around. We sent bcr letter to the printer just 
as she bad typed it. but the printer botched it in typeset- 
ting. The printer bad the only copy, Qiere was no way for 
me to know the letter was changed when I proofed the 
paper. 

This is the point where I should accept some of the 
blame. Before the paper goes to press. I have a few 
hours to look over iht paper for mistakes. The printer 
flutes a copy of the paper to IPIW for me to read. I catch 
a lot of mistakes, and miss some. But the mistakes I miss 
are the mistakes, as with Seller's letter, made by Ihc 

Often times I catch errors in the paper, tell them about 
it and they stdl fail to make the changes. 

Gct a new printer? This is no solution. We've bad other 
printers and we've bad the same problems. Aitd very few 
companies will do all the work it takes to compose and 
print an entire newspaper every week. 

Then what should we do? We should be doing the pre- 
press production woik ourselves. The student newspa- 
pers at most other universities do thcii own layout and 
design. They paste up their pages on tight tiibles. Tlicy 
have computers to make all of this work. Even I.U.- 
Kokomo, a school much smaller than ours, uses IBM 
computers with Aldus PageMaker software to design the 
paper. The pages arc printed in lour sections, then pasted 
logcdier and taken to a printer. 

. I.U.-Kokomo uses computers to put together I.SOO 
papers every two weeks. The Communicator types on 
typewriters, mainly my own cigbl 'year-old Royal, and 
wc print around S.OOO papers each and every week of 
Ihc school year! The stupidity of the situation here Mows 
my mind! 



Most high school newspapers in the area do their own 
layout. I know; 1 used a computer and pasted up my 
pages as an editor in grades 10 through 12, Now I'm the 
editor in chief of a newspaper serving a school with an 
enrolhncnt of over 12,000 students, and I type stories on 
a damned electric typewriter! 

This situation has 10 change And studenu would bene- 
fit if wc implemented a new syslem and did it now. 

If we did our own computer design and paste up here, 
students could gain valuable experience. More students 
could work on the staff, with pay. And a much better 
paper could be created by sfljdcnts for the student read' 
ers. 

But best of all, if we pasted up our own newspaper, 
we'd save a hell of a lot of money. And remember, our 
money is your money. 

Right now. your student service dollars support this 
paper and pay. in part, for the work complcled by our 
printer. Wouldn't you radier have your money go to stu- 
dent workers? 

So this system sucks Why do wc do it that way? 
Because it's the only way we can The Cotnmunicalor 
has tried in post years to gel more money for computers 
and layout e^^uipmcnl but students government and the 
university have balked at the idea. But by making the 
initial investment for equipment the invesuncnt would 
soon pay for itself through a drastic reduction in produc- 
tion costs. 

Last year The Communicator paid S20.040 to a local 
printer. Tbis totals just under one third of our operating 
budget It mokes absolutely no sense to be sending this 
kind of money to an outside company when it could be 
coming back to this paper. We could have a paid pro- 
duction staff ai a fraction of the cost. Wc could do so 
much widi that money and the right equipment. All it 
takes is the initial investment 

And IPIW has the money. This isn't Frank's College of 
Shoe Repair. This is a thriving campus. Wc have I2.t)00 
students attending this school. Wc have buildings pop- 
ping up everywhere. But The Communicator staff types 
die paper on a Royal typewriter. 

I hope I've given you a better idea about how things 
work here. I hope you understand now that dits newspa- 
per is probably the only student newspaper at a school of 
any size still working without computers. 

But I don't want you to quit complaining now just 
because you know now how ridiculous things ore here. 
Instead, I want you \o sum complaining to the right pco- 
pie. 

Let your gripes bo hcardl Call or write students gov- 
ernment. The number for their office in Walb 225 is 
481-6SS6 Or you can speak to or leave a message with 
Chancellor Joanne Lantz at 481-6103. The office of 
Prank Borclli, vice chancellor of student affairs, would 
also hear your complaints. The number at his office is 
481-6844. 

Tell them you want your student newspaper to catch 
up wiUi the times, to catch up with all the other schools. 
IPFW is no longer just "drive through U,' Tell diem diis 
is your university, this is a real university and it is at&gt;out 
time wc had a real newspaper -one Uiat has die equip- 
ment to do what ad other college papers can do. And one 
that can produce the best possible paper for its student 

Jim Walker 
Editor In Chief 




Student government 
backs wrong issue 



To the Editor: 

I am a full-time wife ant] 
mother, a full-time employee, 
and a full-time IPFW student. 
As (D) all of ihi; above, I have 
no lime (or use) for "student 
activities." but I gruilglngly 
finatice them each s 



Now sludents govcmmeni has 
voted lo increase those fees to 
S30, while working to defeat a 
SIO parking fine. Am I to 
believe the majority of students 
here are willing to pay for oth- 
ers' leisure, but oppose punish- 
ment for traffic violations? 1 
.hppe.no_L__ 

Students government is obvi- 
ously out of touch with its con- 
stituency. This is a cotnmuter 
camptts. Most of us are here 



for an education-not the 

Mastodons, the jogging track, 
or Wednesday movies. And 
most of us obey posted speed 
limits and parking regulations; 
we have nothing lo fear from 
cnforcemen[--al any ticket 
price. 

I hope all adulls on this cam- 
pus will join me in voting dur- 
ing the upcoming election. Our 
past apathy has resulted in a 
students government run by 
self-sen.'in8 adolescents. Let's 
pray for some mattjre candi- 
dates and support them. We 
can't afford lo let the children 
play Congress anyinore; they're 
spending our real dollars irre- 
sponsibly, 

Becky Roady-Ladig 
IPFW Student 



Campus events 

SAB needs support 



To the Editor: 

I am writing to you as a con- 
cerned IPFW studeni and as a 
member of the Studeni Activi- 
ties Board. As you probably 
know, our organization has 
held many events this year, 
and lo our surprise atiendance 
has decreased a great deal in 
the past several months. 

1 would like the sludents on 
this campus to realize that 
SAB is a planning board for 
Ibem. We would like sugges- 
tions on how we can improve 
Interest in our events. 

I realize that it is hiird for a 
commuter campus lo find 
evenis thai will bring students 
back lo camptis after a day of 
classes, bul it's our jOb lo do 
so. With other siudeiils' input, 
we can pkm a great calender 
of events for next year. I 
would like to note thai we 



have two special cvenis com- 
ing to IPFW in ihe upcoming 
months. On Thursday, March 
19, a wonderful hypnoiisi by 
the name of Tom DeLuca will 
be performing at 8 p.m. in the 
Walb Memorial Union Ball- 
room. Also. Snickerz Come- 
dy Club will be coming back 
10 IPFW on April 16. Look 
for more details later. 

We would greatly appreciate 
support for these activities. If 
you have suggestions that 
may help the campus get back 
in action, or if you would like 
10 get involved in SAB, please 
go to ibe Sludents government 
ofTiii; in Walb. 

Let's \&gt;uri&gt; luijetlKT to make 
ilie last two nionilisuf school 
successful and fun. 

Melinda Willimns 
SAB Member 



Appeals board 

Communicator article misleads on hearing 



To the Editor: 

The article in Ihe Feb. 27 edi- 
tion of The Communicator, 
written by Managing Edilor 
Chad Hesiing, was for [he most 
part a sound, informative arti- 
cle, Unforiunalely, Mr, Hesiing 
failed to contact the individuals 
actually involved in Ihe Cam- 
pus Appeals Board hearing 
scheduled for March 16 before 
publishing his story. If he Itad 
read the copy of the submitted 
appeal which was furnished lo 
The Communicator, he would 
have known that Ihe parties 



concerned in this hearing are 
Campus Appeals Board mem- 
bers, IPSGA judicial court 
members who signed the raling 
which dismissed unpeachment 
charges against Nancy Barger, 
and myself, Nancy Barger is 
not a party in this appeal. 

Please lake ihe lime to read 
your copy of my appeal, Mr. 
Hesiing. In il you will find dial 
I have challenged the judicial 
court's authority and the court's 
procedural errors in its ruling 
thai the internal affairs commii- 
lee failed to follow proper pro 



cedure when investigating, and 
eventually charging, Nancy 
Barger with misconduct, 
lurisdiciion and procedure 
will be the only issues before 
the Campus Appeals Board if 
il determines that this appeal 
is allowed to be heard. Dr, 
Evangelos Coufoudakis. 
appeals board chair, has 
assured mc of this fact and 
would have explained it to 
you, had you interviewed him 
before crediting him wilh an 
erroneous statement. 
If you have further queslions 



after reading the text of my 
appeal, I am available to answer 
them lo every extent possible. 
If you need addilional informal 
tion, consult Dr. Coufoudakis, 
My main request is ihai you 
research your information 
through more than one source. 
It would help if that source 
were actually involved in the 
case, not simply the recipienl of 
a courtesy copy of a letter as 
was Nancy Barger in this 
instance. 

Michael J. Will 
IPFW Student 



Vo 



ICES 



by Chris Sheldon 



Q. Even if parking fine increases are 
voted down, should handicap parking 
violation fines be increased? 




Joe StayanofT 
Junior 
Chemistry 

"I don't care. I'm toi 
damnDpathelk." 



Vincent Campbell 

Junior 

Prc-occupallonal therapy 

"Yes. Handicapped people 
deserve these spots. People 
who violate Ihls de.serve mas- 
sivc fines." 



Chuck Reddinger 

Junior 

Pre- optometry 

"No. It would be unfair to 
selectively raise rales In one 
area." 



Felix Moxter 

Senior 

Pre-Med 

"Yes. People who park in 
handicapped spaces and 
have no need to should have 
their cars towed to another 
part of campus and charged 
accordingly. 



Opinions 



Tliursday. March 5, 1991 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Freeman ponders pro-life victory 



To the Editor: 

I read the letters about the abortion 
isiue, and Dr. Clausen's letter noted 
ilicre were no responses defending 
die woman's right lo choose. Until 
now. I was guilty of talcing no action. 
Why? Because I honestly fell that 
our leaders would stand by our Con- 
siilulion and not buckle under the 
pressure thai the pro-life movement 
is pulling on them. 

Qui hey, ihcy have to do what il 
Mkes lo gel re-elecicd, right or 
wrong. I was mistaken to think the 
pro-life movement could ever win, 
especially using the laciics thai many 
(not all) are using now. Thai is why I 
look this time to write this letter, and 
even other ones lo our state rcpresen- 
laiives. I invite you all lo do the 
same. Remind ihem dial you vote, 
loo. 

I have a hard lime arguing with pro- 
lifers. Some of Ihc pro-life members 
are terribly narrow minded people, 
who can only see a small fraction of 
the real problem. They arc so full of 
passion for their cause ihey fail to 
acknowledge the reasons for abor- 
tions. They fail to look at the impli- 
i^tions for ihc fuiure if ihey "win". 

M.my use insults and indulge in 
naiiie-calling. Many are Uireatening 
and violent. Who can reason with 
that? 

Yes, there are "reasonable" mem- 
bers but Ihey arc the ones who use 
semantics to confuse the issue. The 
last obstacle in debating an uiu'eason- 
able pro-lifer is their constant referral 
to the Christian Bible. When making 
laws thai affect the whole nation, I 
ihink it is wise to leave a specific 
religion out of the picture. Thai is 
what our Conslilution protects reli- 



gious minoridcs from, isn't it? To 
start spouting off scriplures from a 
book thai has countless inlcrpreta- 
tions is meaningless. "Thou shall not 
kill" can also refer to self defense, 
but we make exceptions here. If any- 
thing should be used as a guide, it's 
Ihc Bill of Righis, because il is appli- 
cable lo every citizen. 

The opposite of pro-life seems lo 
mean pro-death. As a person for 
abortion rights, 1 can assure you that 
nothing could be farther from the 
truth! I think il is abominable Ihat 
our country is in such a disastrous 
siaie thai women have to consider 
abortion as an option. Is ihc fetus the 
only victim? Yes. "fetus", because 
there is a difference between a one 
monih-otd baby and a one month-old 
fetus. 1 don't think so. 

The pain and loss must be incredi- 
ble for a modier, and the desperation 
must be overwhelming, Bui people 
seem so eager to blame and hale, 
especially when il comes to women. 
Whose fault is il if a woman, or 
young teen, is raped by a stranger, 
husband, or dale? Whose fault is il if 
contracepdves fail? Whose fault is il 
if the pregnant woman gets exposed 
10 ruebella, AIDS, toxic levels of 
lead, etc.? Why is it the woman's 
responsibility noi lo get pregnant, 
and not the man's? Why does she 
have more lo lose and more responsi- 
bility? Because society caters to the 
man, which is evident is our child 
suppoft system. 

Just as ihe reasons why and how 
someone gcis pregnant arc private, so 
should be the decision of whal to do 
about il. Currently under Roe Vs. 
Wade, the decision in the first 
trimester is up lo the doctor. In an 



ideal world, abortion should be ille- 
gal. Dui we are living in a world far 
from perfect. Should our laws make 
a twelve yciir-old girl have a baby 
because she was getting love die only 
way she knew how? The way she 
learned from TV and advertising. 
Should our laws make a rape victim 
give birth? Should our laws force a 
woman lo have a grossly retarded or 
disngured baby? Should our laws 
force a woman into psychological 
and financial turmoil by making her 
condnue a pregnancy when there are 
no laws protecting her from losing 
her job. or giving her medical care 
and maternity leave? 

There is very liiilc help for a preg- 
nant woman or moUier. especially if 
she has more than one child. Welfare 
is a pathetic joke, housing takes at 
least a year lo gel Charily organiza- 
tions provide some day care, but it is 
limited. What arc Ihe choices? 
Adoption? That is great if you have 
a white baby, but what about minori- 
ties? Should women be forced lo 
give up their babies jusi so they can 
be inslilulionalized? 

1 realize thai many Christian organi- 
zations provide help to many suffer- 
ing people. But the truth is that even 
ibis and government social services 
don't offer enough help. There is still 
too much pain and suffering in this 
country, I'm afraid if abortion were 
made illegal, noi only would women 
be unjustly persecuted and 
oppressed, bui the viciims "saved" 
would be living in Ihe streets, starv- 
ing, and medically deprived. Is deaili 
Ihe ultimate child abuse? I don't 
think so, 

Debra Freeman 
IPFVV Student 



Negative press spoils 'Month' 



By Joe Heersche 
Sports Editor 

The celebrations of black culture and 
history, planned for February's 
African-American History Month, 
were overshadowed by a turbulent 29 
days for blacks in the media spotlight. 

NAACP executive director. 
Benjamin L, Hooks, announced 
that he plans to leave the nation's 
oldest civil-rights organization 
within the year. Hooks has 
denied he was leaving because of 
disagreements among board 
members, saying he is leaving 
because of time constraints. 
Members have increased criti- 
cism that Hooks is out of touch 
with mainstream African- Ameri- 
cans. Hooks began his service as 
director in 1977. 

New angle 
on abortion 

To the Editor: 

1 am pro-life. However, 1 am not 
writing 10 defend my views, nor am I 
writing to attack Chad Hesting. 
Instead, 1 am writing lo add a different 
angle to an already controversial issue. 

A while ago, I was talking to a 
Christian woman who is pro-life. 
However, she is also pro-capilal pun- 
ishment. For curiosity's sake, I am 
hoping to discover if there are others 
out there who fit this description. 
Because if there are, I would have lo 
say you are hypocrites, how can you 
say killing a baby that hasn't been bom 
yet is wrong; yet killing a person who 
has lived out most of his life is 
alright? 

I hope this woman is the only one of 
her kind; because I would hate to think 
of people fighting for ihe rights of an 
unborn child, while allowing other 
human beings to die at the hands of an 



Faye Mohandespour 
IPFW Student 



Snyder chides student silence 



. To Ihe Editor: 

- Jeaneite Clausen, writing in last 
week's issue of the newspaper, 
expressed dismay that not a single let- 
ter had appeared in suppon of the pro- 
choice position in the abortion debate, 
'. I, too, am appalled by the apathy or 
gutlessness thai this silence must rep- 
resent. It is lime for the great majority 
10 speak up in the public debate on 
abortion. 

It is well known that the small fac- 
tion most zealously opposed to abor- 
tion is well organized, well funded. 
and determined to rally support 
through any and all means, not the 
least of which is deception and misin- 
formaiion. 

If the majority would break its gener- 
al silence and speak up, the public 
debate on abortion might be more 
rational and lead lo a clearer consensus 
in the issue. 

While many people find abortion a 
personally rcpugnani way of coping 
with unwanted pregnancies, ihey are 
hesitant to restrict the right of women 
in general lo have an abortion. It is the 
New Right which now seems bent not 
jusi on keeping women barefoot and 
pregnant but on setting moral stan- 
dards for everybody. 

The attack on women's rights has 
been both blunt and subile. In ils 
broader sense, it involves cuts in pro- 
grams vital to women's survival, 
including food stamps and affirmative 
action. Households headed by women 
are the fiistcst- growing family group in 
the couniry, and, partly because of tra- 
ditionally lower salaries for females, 
fwo-thirds of such families receive 
welfare payments. 

Those working to make abortions 
illegal would impose further hardships 
on women. Women would be forced 
to bear unwanted children, including 
children fathered by relatives or 
rapists. And the escalating number of 
teenagers becoming pregnant every 
year would no longer have abor^on as 
an option. More of them would proba- 
bly become pregnant since the anii- 



abonionisis generally oppose sex edu- 
cation and making condoms available 
to minors. For far too many women, 
especially the young, die only options 
left would be hving in poverty or prac- 
ticing abstinence. 

Thai is just what die New Right and 
religious zealots want. The abortion 
issue brings the conservative extrem- 
ists together on the things that stir 
them the most: fear of ses. religious 
fundamentalism, racist hostility toward 
minorities with "loase morals," and the 
independence of young people. Thus 
Uiey would impose ihe will of the stale 
over the rights of individuals. Thai is 
exactly whal die Nazis did when ihey 
made abortion illegal. 

None of this is to say ibat Ihe New 
Right or Right- to-Lifers do not raise 
questions about human life and the 
taking of life that ought to be dis- 
cussed. But we do not hear them rais- 
ing questions about the life of the 
mother, or the life of the convict on 
deaih row, or the lives of people who 
would be destroyed in a nuclear holo- 
caust. 

As an anti-abortion National Catholic 
Reporter said in an editorial, "There ls 
something wrong in a movement 
which ... can value life in just one 
slagc of a development," And, one 
might add, which does so in a mean- 
spirited, irrational manner as do the 
Right- lo-Lifers. 

Fortunately, the public, despile its 
supposed shift to the right, is over- 
whelmingly opposed to making abor- 
tions illegal. This is not die sort of 
conservatism cherished by the far right 
or religious fanatics. It is neither con- 
servative nor liberal but is simply good 
old American individualism. Plain 
common sense, coupled with setf- 
intcresl, ought to make most intelligent 
people see thai the feminists' fight for 
women's rights is everyone's fighL 

Mark S. Snyder 
IPFW Student 



i^» 



WE CAN HELP YOU FIND MONEY 
FOR COLLEGE 



ICJ^UB • Over 2(M,000UsUngs representing over $10 billion ■ 
[__mU in private sector financial aid. ' 

I " Easy 10 use 

■ • Guaranieed. We will find at leas! seven sources of private sector 
financial aid or your money back! 

I 



FOR MORE INFORMATION AND OUR FREE BROCHURE, 'COMPLETE 
AND MAIL THIS COUPON TO; COLLEGE FUND FINDERS, 
3716 SHANNON DRIVE, FORT WAYNE, IN, 46635 



■ City — 

I Year in School 

L^ COUPON 



J.J 



^c4 



QeQstudent employment service 

We have ajoB tfiat may interest you! 

upholsterer: Wor1&lt;ing on boat furniture - 1 to 2 years experience 
in vinyl seating - 7am to 3;30pm Mon-Fri - $6.54 • $8.35 - 2-4- 
GL-2 

Accounts Poyable Clerk: Flexible hours 20 hours per week - 
must have nad an accounting class - must be personable - 
possible collection on phone ■ pay rate depentis on experience 

Help with Handicapped; Companion tor a tiandicapped woman - 
1 6 hours approximately - preler a MHT or Nursing student but 
interested students also welcome - pay rate is negotiable - 2-4- 
PS-3 

Cocktail Server: Vary from 4pm to 3am - weekends and holidays 
- must be 21 years old ■ needs an Indiana Liquor License - pay 
rate depends on experience - 2-4-S-2 

,ol Job Foir on Wednasdo/, 
id comps lo inlerviaw IPFW 




'ill bo sponsoring ilj Twelfth Am 
n lOom- 2pm, in the Walt} Bal 



,ifro 



lobi 



INDIANA UNIVBUmr 

nmouG iTNivEnsrrY 

FORTKAYNB 

Student Employment Service 
Walb113 481-6596 

STOP m TODAY! 




OIL JUNKIES? 



^\\ A-Ty III krq&gt; LimIj) k i 



vllkprmJcrh^ 
l-mlni^nl'rjr 




•The Center For Women And Returning AduHs is a Safe Haven For Students 
In Crisis. We Offer Support. Guidance and Advocacy, We Can Help- 
Call: 481-6029 
fi/londay-Thursday 10AM-4 PM 
_____^__ WALB G-25 




CELEBRATE 



MARCH IS WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH 



IPFW Woman Writer's Group presents a 'Reader's Theatre" on March 26 at 7:30 p.m. inNeffHall, 101. 

BROWN BAG PROGRAMS: 

*TTbmen and Feminism-time for a New DefinUionf" will be presented by Linda Scott on 
Monday. March 23, 12:00 ■ 1:00 in Walb, G-21, 

"The Women's Studies Ma]or-An IPFW Success" will be presented by Leslie Raymer on Monday, 
March 30, 12:00 - 1 :00 in Walb, G-21 . 



The annual report from Klanwaich, a 
project of the Southern Poverty Law 

Commentary 

Center, was released this monih. The 
report showed an increase in haie- 
oime lullings which coincided with an 
increase in the number of hale groups. 
In 1990. Klanwaich reported Ihcre 
were 273 hate groups in ihe United 
Stales, this numtxir jumped lo 346 in 
1991, Also. 25 haie killings. 

In February, serial killer Jeffrey 
Dahmer was sentenced lo 15 consec- 
utive life prison lerms. Many of 
Dahmer's vicilms were minorities 
and this began a long journey of 
recovery for many African- American 
family members. This was epito- 
mized by Rita Isbcll, the sister of 
viclim Errol Lindsey. Her pain was 
evident in her violent, uncontrolled 
screaming at Dahmer before his sen- 
lencing. 

The sports world had ils fair share of 
shakeups adding to the lurbuleni Black 
History Month. 

Mike Tyson was found guilty of one 
count of rape, and two counts of crimi- 
nal deviani conduct in charges brought 
against him by Desirce Wa.shing[on a 
Miss Black America pageant conics- 
tani. 

"Iron Mike" Tyson, a legend and idol 
10 many, is l)eing supported by people 
who sec his conviction as unjusi. 
These aciions are creating a chasm in 
the black community with those who 
suppon the outcome of the trial. 

Trivializing rape and further exasper- 
ating the situation, Donald Trump and 
the reverend Melvin B. Girion Sr, of 
the Missionary Baptist Ministers 



Alliance have suggested appalling 
alternatives lo Tyson's jail sentence. 

Trump has suggesicd a lioxing match 
in which Tyson forfeits all earnings to 
rape awareness programs, Girion is 
collecting 100.000 signatures in an 
effort to ask for leniency in the sen- 
tencing t&gt;ccausc of Tyson's standing in 
the African-American community. 

Another icon of sports. Ervin "Mag- 
ic" Johnson, retired his #32 jersey on 
Ihc heels of his own retirement from 
professional basketball after contract- 
ing the virus which causes AIDS. 
Altliough he played sieltar basketball 
in the NBA All-Star Game, gnmlshing 
the Most Valuable Player award with 
his 25 points, nine assists, and five 
rebounds, retiring his jersey brought a 
premature end lo a career that inspired 
many young blacks. 

Finally, we are reminded of earlier 
days in which African -American ath- 
letes were not able to participate in 
professional spons because of racism 
and fear of competition from black 
athletes. Randy Will, driver of the 
four-man USA txibsled leam, booted 
Hcrsche Walker as brakeman. Many 
believe because Walker received better 
press coverage than Will, and Will's 
desire to assure his longtime friend of 
a slot on the team. Needless lo say. 
Will's team finished 1.02 seconds 
behind Ihe winner in a distant ninth 
place. 

All told, when you begin to subtract the 
turbulence from the festive celebrations, 
you end up with a negative balance for 
black celebrities during the month of 
February. Black History Month. 

It is ironic that during the month set 
aside to honor black culture and histo- 
ry so many disheartening events arc 
taking thespoiUghi, 



DON'T 

JUST 

SIT 



Dial Our 




JOBLINC 



THERE! 461-6318 

Find out more about challenging and rewarding full and 
part-time opportunities with LINCOLN NATIONAL BANK. 

Updated weekly, jOBLINC offers you access to our current 
job openings, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We 
have exceptional career opportunities available for tfie 
right person, with unlimited growth 
potential. That might well be YOU. 

Why not give us a call TODAY, or stop 
by any one of our many banking centers 
and pick up a JOBLINC card. It could be 
the beginning of a mutually rewarding 
relationship. 

An Equal Opportunity/Aftiimalive Action Empioyor 





''«^ ^0 ^0 ^^ 



Sometking new and Kilat-iows at 
+Ke Cio\um\:&gt;\a C-\uo\ 

You'll get to see three different comedians weekly, 
for the low ticket price of $3. 



DON'T MISS OUT !!! 




Leisure 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Thur^ay, March 5, 1991 



Honesty makes completing 
FAF a very trying experience 



ByChadHcsUng 
Manoglng Editor 

The clock said 10 p.m. The calendar 
Slid. Sunday, Mircb 1. 1992. Twas the 
nigbl before the postmark deadline for 
mailing my FAF, and I hadn't Tilled it 
out yet. 

Most IPFW students have dealt with 
this form. For all those who haven't, 
you uninitiated. rcd-Corvettc-drivin', 
eold-card-carryin'. Republican- votin', 
wingtip-wearin'. Mommy-and-Daddy- 
spongin', coke-SQortin', fariin'-through- 
silk-sofiics you. FAF stands for Finan- 
cial Aid Form. 

Whoa. Wait a minute. To the softies 
described above, I must apologize for 
that unfair outburst. Applying for finan- 
cial aid makes mc cranky. 

Millions of students across the country 
ask for financial aid. People who ordi- 
narily wouldn't ask for a quarter for a 
phone call from a stranger, must now 
pray that Uncle Sam gives them SlOO 
more this year to cover tuition increases. 

After about thirty years of part-time 
schooling, I'm nearing graduation. lean 
smell the light at the end of the tunnel. 
One year of full-time study at IPFW 
should do the trick. 

So 1 need full-time money, but I don't 
want lo fill out that damn form. There 
is no FAF-EZ. like your tax form. 
There is only the FAP-MF, standing tor 
exactly what you think. 

Back during the Truman presidency, 
when 1 started school, my dad would fUl 
out my FaF. (3ood old dad' Sweating 
over my EIC's and W-2's. making sure 
that my GSL's and NDSL's arrived right 
on the D-O-T. 

My kind-hearted, loving dad. Thinfc 
I'll call and ask him if he'd like to give 
his doting sod a helping hand. 

Ring, Ring. Click. "Hi Dad. This is 
Chad. Okay if 1 come over with my 
FAF?" 

"Listen, kid. that thing's been silting 
around your house since New Year's. 
Me and your mom's getting some sleep. 
Do it your own damn self." Click. 

Cranky old man. He probably isn't my 
real father, anyhow. 

I was out of options. Do it. or die. I 
put in the "Abbey Road" CD. for a 
sympathetic voice {"You never give me 
your money/You only give mc your 
funny pipers,") and got busy. 

The FAFs first line gave me a shiver 
of feir, "If you purposely give false 
information ... you may be subject to a 
510,000 fine, or a prison sentence or 
both." Damn! Uncle Sam, read my 
lips, "it I'm asking for financial aid, I 
don't have SIO.OOO to pay a fine." 

I resolved to be completely honest 
with every question. 

Name, address, date of birth were easy 
enough. Tlie first slicking point came 
with the "your title" question. "Check 



one: Mr.. Miss, Ms., or Mrs. ' 

I turned to page 4 and found the 
small box marked "Section R-Cxpla- 
nations/Special Circumstances." I 
wrote in my teeniest handwriting, "As 
I resent the needless gender specifica- 
tion in question 3, 1 request the gender- 
less title of The Right Honorable Chad 
nesting.'" 




Real-Life Stories 
by Chad Hesting 



That was honest enough. I toasted my 
moral victory with a glass of wine and 
moved on. 

"Are you a U.S. citizen?" asked ques- 
tion 7. 

When Reagan was re-elected in 1984, 
I renounced America, democracy, and 
the existence of God, so I couldn't hon- 
estly call myself a citizen mymore. 

The FAF thoughtfully provided an 
option reading "No. but 1 am an eligible 
noncitizen." Below that was a blank 
space beginning with a mysterious letter 
"A." 

I didn't want to be a man without a 
country. I idly flipped to page 4 and 
read the draft exemption options. One 
read, "1 am a permanent resident ... of 
the Republic of Palau." 

Great! I wtoic in the citizenship blank 
"A Palauian." Thai's what ihe mysteri- 
ous A was for! 

Question 9: "What year will you be in 
college in 1991-927" This question 
obviously didn't apply to me, because 
"5lb year undergraduate" was as high as 
the answers went. 

I fell that "Student tor life " should 
have been an option there, but then I 
thought better of it. for reasons obvious 
to anyone who reads the Letters to ibe 
Editor. 

Question 10: "Will you have your 
bachelor's degree before July I, 1992?" 
I checked the "Alas, no" bon, then 
moved on. 



Question 12: "Did your parents claim 
you as an income tax exemption in 
1991?" I returned to the Special Cir- 
cumstances box and wrote "Question 
12: Yes, they did, but they were cheat- 
ing." 

I toasted my revenge on dad with 
another glass of wine. 

Then it got complicated. The form 
said "If you are an unmarried under- 
graduate student and answered yes to 
questions II and 15, fill out the purple, 
gray, and white areas. If you will be 
graduating high school in May of this 
year, check no for questions 202, 203, 
and 204 and fill out while areas only 
until you gel to Section D, then switch 
to the gray areas ... ." 

1 decided to simply fill in all the 
blinks. Farcasier that way. 

Much of the questions were embar- 
rassingly personal questions about 
income,'! and old loans. They were put 
there to discourage and confuse. 

Take question 82: "If either your 
mommy or daddy makes more than 30 
grand a year, check the yes box, then 
wad this form up and throw it in the 
trash. You aren't getting any dough 
from us." See what I mean? 

I was obliged lo b&gt;c honest on question 
43: "Cash, savings, and checking 
accounts— what arc they worth today?" 
My checkbook said "-S85,65." so I 
wrote that in. 

Question Number 65: "Circle your 
preference for loan assislince or work: 
part-time job only; part-time job and 
loan; loan only."' 

Unappealing choices, 1 thought. I 
went back to the special circumstances 
box, stapled an additional sheet of paper 
to il, and wrote "S5000 in unmarked, 
nonconsccutivc bills, left in a briefcase 
underneath the walnut tree by the free 
lot." 

It was at thai point I passed out, from 
loo much wine and loo little sleep. 

When I woke up, I scrawled my signa- 
ture across it and ran lo the post office. 
The line was long, with at least 30 oth- 
ers with Ibe FAF's purple and white 
envelopes before me. 

After twenty minutes. I made it to a 
window. 

"Man, you look like hell," the clerk 
yelled. 

"Don't worry about that, just mail this 
by certified mail." I replied. 

The clerk frowned, then pulled open 
the envelope flaps and peered inside. 

■What?" I asked. 

"Well. son. you filled this out in pen. 
It's supposed lo be in Number 2 pencil. 
The FAF people won't accept it," he 

All the blood in my body rushed to my 
face when he slid il back across the 
counter lo me, 
"You gotta do it again, son." 



Meet Russ the Psychic 



Sometimes it looks like things tire so 
bad they just can't get any worse. And 
you know what? Things can always 
gel worse. Ask George Bush. 

PISCES {Feb. 20-March 20) You 
will be Slabbed in the chest with a 
rusty dagger. If I had your home phone 
number. I woultJ have called anti 
warned you earlier. For special early- 
warning call service, send me your 
home phone number and ihc number 
for your Masier Card or Visa. I 
promise not to charge up a big phone- 
sex bill on your card. 

ARIES (March 2I-ApriI 19) Mar- 
ried? Not for long. Your spouse will 
come home early from work and catch 
you in bed with the paperboy. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20) Sec 
that mean looking guy in [he gray 
sedan back there? He is following you. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20) You 
will be talking with someone you arc 
very much physically attracted to 
when they suddenly hall the conversa- 
tion and ask "Would you like a mint?"' 

CANCER (June 21-July 22) Go 



ahead and light up anotbcr butt. It 
won't kill you. Keep smoking them 
Camct non-filters too. 1 don't care. 




LEO (July 23-Aug. 22) Constipation 
will be a problem. Take a Dickens col- 
lection into the John with you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) You will 
slop along the highway lo help an 
elderly couple whose car has broken 
down. As you bend over to look at the 
radiator, one of them clubs you over 
the bead with wrench and Lbc other 



Angle List extra 



takes your wallet. 

LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct 23) You wiU 
gain 13 pounds this week around your 
mid-section. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 24 - Nov. 22) I'U 
tell you this much. Watch for owls, 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21) 
How's your drink? Did it taste all 
right? Why? you ask. Because il was 
laced with deadly poison. You now 
have 30 seconds lo live, 

CAPRICORN (Dee. 22-Jan 19) A 
good deal of cash money will come 
into your hands soon. You will fooN 
ishly keep il in a mbe sock and it will 
bum with all of your valuables during 
a freak electrical fire. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 19) As 
you walk though ihc mall, you begin 10 
notice everyone is looking at you. It is 
at this point when you realize you arc 
not wearing pants. 

Russ Reklaw is certified by the 
National Meteorological Society. His 
views in no way reflect the opinions of 
President George Bush. Even though 
Reklaw's predictions may seem out- 
landish and exaggerated, the fact 
remains-he i^ always right. 



Cinema Center 

4l)7E.Ccrry 
42C-riLA( 



Even though the majority of Leisure's 
white space is being peppered with 
type by Chad this week, die Obtrusc 
Angle staff felt inspired to do a Hot 
and Cold list. 

We ail know how popular these lists 
are with the kids. 

Hot: Ryne Sandberg, Jughead, Joll 
Cola. Cuba, "Under Ihe Bridge," Jeff 
Speakman, American Eagle, Powers 
Hamburgers. Pamell Avenue. Janet 
Bradbury, FAF's. "X-Men." Harry 
Crews, B.D.P., Sen. Lloyd Bentsen. 
Savage Mondo Blitzer toys. Interna- 
tional Pancake Day, Lisa and Aaron 
from ABC's World News Now, Spy 
magazine, Byron Allen, calling some- 
one a "punk," WOWO. and Dick 



Thursday - SaturiJay at 8 p.m. 
Sunday at 4:30 p.m. 

t5 geneia admission • $3memtie(s 
S1 senior / cfiJdfen discouni ^^ 

IIAC 



DifiaiL 



P" NANNIES!!! ^ 

ic ffialcsl growing agency \n tht Eufi 
MC olTer Immcdlalc plactmenl In Ihe No 
ik. New Jersey and Conncctlcul orco: 
tnl bencftls! Over 300 nnnnles plncc 
arly. YcJirly employment onl&gt;'. 
NANNIES PLUS 1-800-752-0079^ 



VanDyke. 

Cold: DonaldTrump. S.A.B.. Goon, 
Tab cola, Haiti, "Vibcology," Jean- 
Claude Van Damme, the Original 
Cookie Company, Azar's. 1-69, Mark 
GiaQuinla. the 1040 EZ. "Ritchie 
Rich." Tom Clancy. C.M.B,, Sen, 
Brock Adams. Barbie and Ken, 
National Soup Mondi, the Sports Dlus- 
iraicd swimsuit issue, Dennis Miller, 
calling someone a "geek," WMEE, and 
"ThalGiri." 

^p^ Adoptive Services ^ 

\ Confidential pregnancy counseling. F 

Participate in selection of adoptive couple, 
Homestudies for privote or international adoption. 
jf Post-placement services. 

(( CALL: 219-426-3347 

S^ Lutheran social Services of Indiana, 



^-^^ 






a licensed agency 



HELP WANTED 
■EARN EXTRA INCOME" 
Eom $20O-S5OO woelly mailing travcJ 
brochurej. f or imfotmalion lend a itamped 
abdrojiod onvcJope lo: ATWTr(W(5l, P.O. 
Bo. 430780, South Miomi,FL 33143 



EARN EXTRA MONEY In spore lime and 
also helpin Ihe continuing effort to 
promote compui safety. Uie'ii 



ing Pei 



bigS 
al Seretu Oeulcei. 

J and Fralernltlei 

lilelcotpe to Funtlralter 
PM-unal Sahty Device], Inc. 
1409 nilamont Rttenue 
Chentlady.NV 12303 



GIVE 



M Mi*j &gt;:wi 



PLEASE.' 



TOUR TEC/H PAPER - 
yCtiP DISSERTATION - 
yOUR THESIS - 

DONE PROFESSIONALLT - 
DONE INEXPENSIVELT ■ 

DONE ODICrLr - 

TYPE SET - EASER PRINT 
AV/IILADLE 



BETTER Letter inc 



/VOTE/ 





I 747-0072 i 



OPEN SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 4 EVENINQS 



I 




INDIANA-PURDUE 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

ASSOCIATION 

= ELECTIONS FOR 1992-93 = 



PREGNANT?' 



FIRST PRESBYTERIAN THEATER 



I 



PflEGtUNCV TERMINATION TO I? WEEKS 
OURPHVSClAHSAflE 

UCEHSfOGYNECaOOlSTS 
WEOffEflNIIROtJSOXJDE 

GAS ANAiGESlA 



AFFiLiATeD 

WOMEN'S senviccs. Inc. 



REFINANCE 



Choslris Your Motlgage (*ayniont9 




Local ProfoMlonal Loan OrlglnaTor 

...ant} Servlcef Since 1693 

■A S-STAR flNANaAl WSTIWriOH' 



t£) 



Phone 219/422-3502 



Tlie Teahouse of the August Moon 

by John Patrick 

A Pulitzer Prize winning comedy about the Army of 

Occupation on the Island of Okinawa circa 1953. 

Performances: 

8 p.m. 2 p.m. 



March 13 
March 14 



March 20 
March 21 



March 15 



March 22 



Come enjoy dinner and theater at the 
First Presbyterian Dinner Theater 

300 EAST WAYNE STREET 

422-6329 

Reservations required 



.^^i^^^-/^^-^- 



/ 

V 

o 

T 
E 
/ 

/ 
V 
O 

T 
E 
/ 

/ 
V 
O 

T 
E 
/ 



• PETITIONS AVAILABLE AT: 

Dy^ STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE 

(WALB 225) 
KF' KETTLER INFORMATION DESK 

• PETITIONS SHOULD BE COMPLETED 
AND TURNED IN TO THE STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT OFFICE NO LATER THAN 
5:00 P.M. ON MARCH 9. 

• ELECTIONS ARE MARCH 24 AND 25. 

/VOTE/ /VOTE/ /VOTE/ /VOTE/ /VOTE/ /VOTE/ 



/ 
V 
O 

T 
E 
/ 



/ 
V 
O 

T 
E 
/ 

/ 
V 
O 

T 
E 
/ 

/ 
V 
O 

T 
E 
/ 

/ 
V 
O 

T 
E 
/ 

/ 
V 
O 

T 
E 
/ 



Sports 

niiirsday, Maich S. 1901 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Lady 'Dons win two, need two more 

By Jim Wnlkcr throw shooting late in the game. The 

Editor in Chief Lady 'Dons hil 8-10 free throws in the 

The Lady 'Dons won bolh of their final minuic of lie game- 
games lasi week, downing ihe Univcr- "We shot really well from the line 
y of Indianapolis 94-76 on "niursday tonight," Klcinfelier said. Her team bit 
28-35 charity losses, "ll helped a ton 
that we got to the free-throw line a lot 
lonighl." 

Kleinfellcr said she was pleased wiQi 
the Lady "Dons' board work. IPFW 



and Nordiem Kentucky 80-73 Salur- 
day night 

IPFW coach Eileen Kleinfellcr was 
happy with the wins last week, bul she 
said ii will take two more lo keep posi- 



1 hopes alive- The Lady 'Dons out rebounded Northern Kentucky 35- 



now boast a record of 20-6 overall and 
12-4 in the Great Lakes Valley Con- 
ference. They will have a chance lo 
improve those marks this week as they 
face conference foes Lewis and St. 
Joseph's on the road. 

"We have to win bodi games or at 
feast beat Lewis and do a very good 
job with St. Joseph's." Kleinfelter 
£aid. 

IPFW 94 - Indianapolis 76 
; The Lady "Dons bad liitle trouble 
pulling away the Lady Greyhounds 
Thursday night in ihc Athletic Center. 

Lisa Miller led the way with 31 
points, 11 rebounds and six assists. 
She broke Ihe NCAA Division II 
career free throw record of 222 by hit- 
! 13 tosses from the line. After 



33. "I was pleased with our work on 
the boards. 1 was especially happy 
with our 11 offensive rebounds." 

The low turnover total of 1 1 was also 
key. according to Kleinfellcr. 

Jamie LaRuc led IPFW's offense 
from the point guard position. She had 
only one turnover in the game, playing 
as a replacement for the regular starter 
at the point. Tina Menier, In Thurs- 
day's game, Menier suffered a concus- 
sion and, according to Klcinfeiler, she 
may mi.ss the rest of the season. 

'•Jamie LaRuc really rose to the 
occasion tonight. Jamie stepped up 
and Tilled Tina's shoes quite well," 
Kleinfellcr said. 

Miller again led the IPFW scoring 




Sophomore Michelle Conlcy e&gt; 
(eammatc Lisa Miller (24) looks n 



ules a post move against I), of I., 
Photo by Chris Sheldo 



VoUeydons undefeated 
in GLVC 



By Joe Heersche 
Sports Editor 

The IPFW VoUeydons remained 
undefeated in the Midwestern Colle- 
giate Volleyball Association, as they 
defeated Tri-Staie University and the 
University of Wisconsin- Milwaukee 
this past weekend. 

The VoUeydons moved to 5-0 as 
they soundly beat both conference 
rivals in three game matches. 

Tri-Staie mustered only 12 total 
points against IPFW in Thursday's 
match with two of the total points 
scored in the first game, seven in the 
second, and three in the third, 

Wisconsin-Milwaukee was able lo 
lake a 5-0 lead in the first game at 
Milwaukee on Saturday, but fell to a 
score of 15-10. In the second and 
third games, IPFW dominated, allow- 



ing only five and two points respec- 
tively. 

Preparing for tougher opponents, 
coach Qall was able lo get many dif- 
ferent players time on the court. 

IPFW slipped to eighth in Ihe "Vol- 
leyball Monthly" and the Tachikara 
polls, despite the team's successful 
weekend. Long Beach State 
remained at the top of both polls, and 
Ruigers-Newark moved ahead of 
IPFW to seventh in the new polls. 
IPFW failed lo beat Rulgers this year 
despite three attempts. The Volley- 
dons' next match against Navy has 
been cancelled due to scheduling 
problems. During spring break the 
VoUeydons travel to California lo 
face use, Loyola-Marymount. UC- 
Irvine, and UC -Santa Barbara. 



Thursday's game Miller had a total of attack with 34 points including a 12-12 

229 made free Ihrows in her career. showing from ihe free-throw line. 

Pam Edwards added 24 points, six Shelly Sands added 14 points and 

rebounds and seven blocks as IPFW's grabbed 1 1 rebounds. 



Shears slices up Indy defense 



inside presencc. 
IPF\V 80 ■ Northern Kentucky 73 

The Lady 'Dons closed their home 
schedule by holding off the Lady 
Norse in a game which was tight 
throughout. 

IPFW sianed out with a 9-2 lead and 
led by as much as five points later in 
the first half before Northern Kentucky 
surged al the end of the half to take a 
"36-35 lead into the locker room. 

Neither team could pull away in the 
second half until the Lady 'Dons went 
:on a 8-2 run lo close Ihe game. IPFW 
'sealed the victory with solid free- 



"Shelly did a great job on the boards 
tonight. That was a season high for 
her," KleitifeUersaid. 

Edwards turned her ankle during the 
game and played only 21 minutes. 
Kleinfelter praised Michelle Conley 
who took Edwards spot in the second 
halt". "She came in and played great 
post defense. She is one of our belter 
post defenders." 

"The kids hung m ihere and worked 
hard tonight," Kleinfelter said, "And 
when it came lo crunch lime they hil 
the free llirows. That was the key to 
ihe game." 




A turned ankle sidelined Pam Edwards against Northern Kentucky. 
Trainer Mike Gehl assessed the injury. 

Photo by Jim Hehn 



By Joe Heersche 
Sports Editor 

Every athlete strives for the one 
game of their career that approaches 
perfection and etches their name in the 
record books. 

For IPFW senior, Duane Shears, thai 
one game was Thursday. Feb. 27 
against Great Lakes Valley Confer- 
ence foe, the University of Indianapo- 
lis. 

Shears hit ten three-point shots on 
eleven attempts, setting an IPFW indi- 
vidual game record for three-point 
shots made. 

Shear's performance also helped the 
Mastodons sei two school records; 
total points scored and three-point 
field goals made in a single game. The 
Mastodons scored 117 points to Indi- 
anapolis' 85, with Shears contributing 
31, 

As a team, IPFW hit a total of 17 
three-point shots, Shane Gibson. 
Clarence Rich, and Eric Vaughn each 
contributed two three-point field goals 
in the record breaking win. 

Vaughn's second three-point field 
goal came with less than seven sec- 
onds lo play. As Vaughn took the 
inbound pass and dribbled deliberately 
lo a mark 35 feet from the basket, 
many IPFW fans aniicipaied die long- 
range bomb that swished through the 
net and punctuated the Mastodon vic- 
tory. Vaughn's only comment was 
that he "knew il was in his range," 

Shears said of his near perfect sbooi- 
ing, "It was one of ihose nights where 
you could have closed your eyes and 



nude those shots. They did not adjust 
so I continued shooting," 

Sean Gibson, ajunior forward, added 
18 points and ten rebounds, and junior 
Doug Reincke had 11 points for IPFW. 
Pat Murphy was the only other 
Masiodon in double-digit scoring with 
ten. 

Indianapolis dropped lo 3-13 in the 
GLVC, and IPFW improved its record 
10 10-5 in conference play. 

The Mastodons finished the regular 
season home schedule on Saturday, 
Feb, 29 with a GLVC victory against 
Northern Kentucky, 100-83, IPFW 
has compiled an 11-2 record at home, 
with both losses in GLVC play, 

IPFW was paced enrouie to the cen- 
tury mark by Vaughn's 17 points in 20 
minutes of playing time. Murphy had 
12 points. Rich, 11, and Shears, 10, in 
die winning effon. Junior Sean Gib- 
son grabbed 17 rebounds for the 
Mastodons, David Marshall of North- 
em Kentucky lead all scorers widi 27 
poinls' ! i.i J 

The Mdsiodons. moved inio a lie for 
second place in the GLVC, with Ash- 
land still controlling the top spot with 
a 12-4 record, IPFW has two games 
remaining, botli of which are GLVC 
matchups. Tonight IPFW faces Lewis 
in Chicago, and Saturday they lake on 
St. Joseph's at Rensselaer, Ind. The 
Mastodons need lo win both games 
and Ashland must lose, for IPFW lo 
have a shot at Ihe conference champi- 
onship. 



REgURCfllffORMAlUN 

Urgesl Library ol IntDrrmrtlon In U,S, 



800-3510222 



ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
Fisheries - earn SS.OOOt/monlh. 
Free iransporlalion' Room 8 Board! 
Over 8,000 openings. 
MALE Of FEMALE For emplovmenl 
piogfanicalM-g06-54S-11SS e&lt;t. g91. 



NATIONAL BESTSELLER 

Now in Paperback 





'Q^^^^^^^^^^^^QQQ^ 




426-0555 



Early Kgis'traiion for seniors for fail '92 ix 

WllT 

March 23'27- Juniors will be 

able 10 register from March 30- 

2, and sophomores frgm 



Atigit/l 6. 

Do It with a s\iaent loan from 

rOHTWAYNC 
NATIOHM 

llals my BUNK 



Exf, 2706 



The new 1992 MARKETING ASSOCIATION 1 


enthusiastically f/ia«/c5,,, 1 


Tifflni Aschliman 


Christopher Mettler 


Nikky Beerbower 


Eric Meyer 


Mary Berghoff 


Pat OBrtan 


Dr. Donna Bialik 


Henry Oven 


Todd Burrts 


Jim Poling 
Steve Robinelt 


Mary Jane Casiano 


Sofia Resales 


Karen Cole 


Ann Rossi 


Rick Fate 


EUce Rosswurm 


Mary Beth Gmitter 


Anita Smith 


Annabel Gochtoutt 


Dwight Swanson 


Kevin Harrison 


Ava Stein 


Cindy Harter 


Todd Stewart 


Tammy Heckman 


Greg Thompson 
Debbie Tovmsend 


Greg Hughes 


Vince Torrez 


Karla Humbrecht 


Cherrl Walter 


Tim Kline 


John Weisenburger 


Kevin Kratzman 


Anita Wine 


Marie Marlow 


AND 


Lesley Meredith 


Dandy Mike Pittman 


■...formal&lt;ingour 


annual bus trip to 


^L Chicago a fantastic mix of III 


H business and pleasure! ■■■ 


H r/ianfcs. ever/one, tor 1 ^H 


l^^l be'mg a 


part of if!! K^H 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Thursday. March 5. 1992 




TUITION INCREASES 



Indiana-Purdue University at Fort Wayne has proposed to raise 
tuition costs--yet again!!! The proposed rate of increase is 8%, 
making the per credit hour cost as follows: 



Undergraduate 

resident 
Graduate 

resident 
Undergraduate 

non-resident 
Graduate 

non-resident 



CURRENT TUITION: 

$64.30 

S84.30 
$159.03 
$188.75 



PROPOSED TUITION: 

$69.44 

$91.04 
$172.04 
$203.85 



Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne has proposed the 
following parking and traffic fine increases. These increases range from 
30-300% above what we pay newt 



VIOLATION: CURRENT FINE: 


PROPOSED FINE: 


Failure to 






register vehicle 


$5.00 


SI 0.00 


Improper parking 


5.00 


10.00 


Parking in designated 






fire lane 


20.00 


30.00 


Improper permit dis- 






play/failure to display 


S.OO 


10.00 


Moving violation 


10.00 


40.00 


Meter violation 


2.00 


5.00 


Illegal parking in handicapped 






parking areas 


10.00 


20.00 


Display of lost/stolen/altered permit 


25.00 


35.00 


Bicycle (Improper parking, 






moving violations, other) 


2.00 


5.00 


Failure to pay fines: 






Administrative fee (non-student) 


5.00 


10.00 


Encumbrance fee (student) 


5.00 


10.00 



LABORATORY FEE INCREASES 

Indiana-Purdue University at Fort Wayne has proposed to 
increase all laboratory fees from $21 .50/credit hour to $23.00/credit 
hour. Included in this are; 



Laboratory Fee 
Fine Arts Studio Fee 



CURRENT FEE PROPOSED FEE 

$21 .50/lab hour $23.00/lab hour 

$21. 50/credit hour $23.00/credit hour 



Computer Laboratory $21.50/CLE hour 
Equivalency Fee 



S23.0Q/CLE hour 







STUDENT SERVICE FEE INCREASES 



Indiana-Purdue University at Fort Wayne has proposed to 
increase the Student Service Fee which is charged to students on a 
per credit tiour basis. The university has also proposed to begin 
assessing a Student Service Fee to students taking classes during 
the summer. 



CURRENT FEE 



S2.35/credit hour 
(maximum of $26) 



PROPOSED FEE 



$2. 50/credit hour 
(maximum of $30) 





TAKE THE FIRST STEP! 



ATTEND THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING 



Everyone is encouraged to attend the Purdue Board of Trustees 
meeting which will be held on March 20, 1992 In Walb 224-226- 

228 beginning at 9:00 a.m. We need to express our opposition to 
these proposals before the Board of Trustees so that they do not 
just casually approve themll . 



SO PLEASE ATTEND THE MARCH 20^" MEETING!! 



%^ 




PETITION THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES 

Tables will be set up in the basement of Kettler Hall and on the first floor of 
Walb Union. Members of Student Government will be at ttiese tables during 
ttie following hours to answer questions and collect signatures on petitions 
wlilch will be presented to the Purdue Board of Trustees. Please take Itie 
time to stop by and malo your opinion l&lt;nownl 



KETTLER BASEMENT: 

MONDAY, WEDNESDAY &amp; FRIDAY 
TUESDAY &amp; THURSDAY 

WALB UNION: 

IVIONDAY, WEDNESDAY &amp; FRIDAY 
TUESDAY &amp; THURSDAY 



10:00-12:00 
2:00-6:00 



11:00-1:30 
2:00-3:00 



P Students can picl&lt; up petitions at these tables or In the Student Government 
Office (Walb 225) to be passed around in their classes. These petitions 
should be returned to the Student Government Office by IVIarch 18, 1992 to | 
be presented before the Board of Tmstees. 




