
-Quote of 

the Week- 




Softball, tennis teams 

break records Page 5 



I [Former employee claims welfare system is mismanaged... Page 3 If 



The Communicator 



VOL. XXII, ISSUE 29 



Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayn 



Board rules on Bells' case 



Intoqraph sJ Discrimination not proven 
by evidence submitted 



End of semester bash 

Blah, Blah, Blah will be p&lt; 

.iniiniL' ;&lt;i i.\-ruii'^ fur ,m &lt;_-nd 



Studios ol UBM I'M i.,r 
i special concert of live music 



rrio, and the River Cily String 
Band. They will play music rang- 
ng from traditional folk io&lt;;ivinc 



A.A. support group to 
meet through summer 



8 fn P Taos in NM ^uf^l" 



■.■,mr&gt; mi.-omiLi-. 



Prospective student 
orientation workshop 



i contact the Center f 




ne Bens called lor the termination limited fundi ol !!),■ rmvn-.iiv . ,i .■..,-. , |,,.-,r rhm.r &lt;&gt;i ■■.ui.l. Souers was T 

^Sl^ZZ^^- *ZL%™Z*St™ b l?^ Zt^^ZX^Z i^ow voter turnout, controversy 
,g p S HSiSStti&amp;l! plagues IPSGA elections 



The board The Bells 
Marjorie Souers, and made no tions. The boar 



International Irish studies group 
elects IPFW professor as president 



i Dan Pulley as president, I 



i Ireland are related' Mary 1 



and the British 



both Catholics and F 



support from Anglo-Irish Literature. This group i 



; groups polltl- j us , An j; lo-In,l, It 



Seemab Rasheed, John 



SAB mirtilRT.s elected include Ebru 
Elmas Erol, Rachel Gehring, Laura 
Njus, Deanna Tribble, Elizabeth Diaz, 



started as a ACIS L 



when I explored Yeats' relationship to politics, not only of f lition because f^ -**a -ar% 4- ■*• s% ***•*•** n-an-%- 

Irish literary tradition, he was so but also of the contemporary situat,on » ?£%£$*£? hf ad IPFW' 1*1^111 redDldlt 

ink-rested in IriMi folklore thdi I h,j,1 in Ireland. .,. , „,,,,., , .. thf , .„ „, fh „ X 

to absorb quite a bit of background in ACIS is an international, inter- -JurtitaEnMy 1 P 

Irisli Eolklore And then as I've moved disciplinary conference on Irish stud- ™J!, a „ ia h-i:™— h»™rti B i n! iHnn in "f"J~k Vd^Ct aoft/l ri fl "■ fl flTI O 

on to do other works on Irish litera- les II - m. mi i ., •&lt; I limn '' LU I COCClI til 1 LLIl&amp;L U.9 

hire, ... history and hier^iur. .... •••■ the Cmteu ,l,s.- n-k.n.1 .:-.,. ," \ '."'V'' ,"" ,';.'t,^ .„_ &amp; 



keep my professional 



How do public- ii ; in'' (juriiit; phase ol liish ludn.-.. )»:■ n i 
Ronald Reagan's administration literature folkloreor art. 
Thuente got a call from the White Atftet Hlling such offices as 1 



blllilf: include ..:■;.„.■!■„: 



Urijv.,!lc, ..!s&gt;i.-:t:in( urokv.x.i 



years ago, Mary 



studies Also, eight Over I 



le years she has brought in 
•tables to lecture at IPFW as 
! Finneran. who had just in- Press 



g back into the classroom." to Dhawale, 



f.B. Yeats and Irish Dhawale i 



Dublin. She- k in (he- [.n../ (; . : : ol v.iiUiil'. nuii.ji.i- 
a second book to be titled "The Harp The first 
Re-Strung: The Origins of Irish to grow t 



degradation system. This 



i with are interesting 



.. full;'. junt;u.-. unl&gt; «... irin . n ;ind nitrogen. anything I 



Opinion 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



The 

Communicator 



MtaHM 


Joyce Stocks 

finus Editor 


Mark Donaldson 

S/wrls Editor 


Tina Holston 


Kelli Beery 


Allen Smith 


£X"Sl/'r 


Dan Hyde 


'°fc ( ?;r 



Doric Reynolds 



-^ 



People should seek info 
to stay in the know 



pay attention tn \vh;it's happe nine 


within 50 feet of where our 


hiiiiic:. h.i|i|H'ii lo be at the lime. 




Part of what we choose to ignore in the world around us is the 


actions of our government. 




Wo watch the U |.i.m. news nn television and believe we are 


well informed about the world in w 




is an abbreviated source of information meant to give only the 


most important events of the day 


Willi hllle in depth back 


ground on the subject Likewise, n 


ost people do not have the 


tune In read the New York Times e 








that "It wouldn't matter anyway." 


So we lake what tittle news 


bits we can and attempt to make decisions with less than 


adequate information. 




The importance nl being informed about and reacting to local, 


national and global politics is eve 


-increasing simultaneously 


with a decrease in the amount of t 




facts and direcl.lv involving nurse! 








Just when we should be paving 


close attention to the gov- 


eminent which makes (he laws we 


live by and are prosecuted 


by, which spends the money we 


earn, and administers the 


prngiarns which affect our daily li 
apathetic We sit back and allow 


es, we are choosing to be 


the local newspaper and 


lelcvisnm news determine what we 


should praise and what we 




Student writes bad words to 'graffiti artists' 



1 um- Hi- rock here in Ft. 
It works for Kent State. The 



is are tor producing tht 
nildn't it be displayed in 

lis and desks? These currer 



create an appropn- When the nx-k ^ t ( ',UiN\ &lt; 
elf-expression^ graffiti, it could be paint. 

Uie 1 I dm pus has the process could be s 



We must reverse this Imiil and begin to actively seek out 
information from a variety ol sources in order to prevent future 
disasters such as the savings and loan crisis and mismanaged 
domestic programs Kach ol us is crucial to the revitali/alion ol 
our national consciousness. We have a responsibility as citizens 
to let our government know how we feel about the way our 
money is being used — good or bad. We need to tell our city 
council, our stale legislature and our U.S. congressional repre- 
sentatives what we approve of and what we don't. When this 
system of balance breaks down, (he government loses sight of 
the needs of the people they are suppose In serve and eventually 
become corrupt. We are at that breaking point in the United 
Stales and numerous negative repercussions lurk just outside 



-a ■■ = ;,.■ paint or engrave i 



-age the graffiti 



Budget crunch 

Indiana education cuts will hurt IPFW 



The department of conn; 
tion that was open. The f 



Q. 



'What is your major source of news?' 




! Classes. The l ™e,j 



Student requests additional program 



ere ,U ll'KV, . 



e prob- Introducing the program 



J Volleyball coverage upsets secretary 



t Coach Ball Division 1 



table langu gem Th ' \ l ( ' L 'J,, j'lhLv^ha^ worked™ 
today's issue of Tin- WLTt ' P'aced above the item on in- 



reporting all sides, but to impro 



Vocal Snyder 
still smoking 



"veroeiu ... , I h you -so be it. Quit 
frankly. I do not give a dam 

truthful. Students, like my.self. hay 

Yourself However, if you are SU| 

eestniu iii.it the, phenomena is yvidi 
spread .!• you .vouid suee.e-i i"wel 






e ynui spurious e 

IneiJl.-.l- ,! ,„t 



N'EVEII I HI TO TEACH A PIG 
'USING, II ONLY WASTES ONE'S 
TIME AND ANNOYS THE PIG.'' 



Features 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Chinese professor recounts labor camps, 
'counter-revolutionary' activities in lecture 



y JOYCE STOCKS 

■ Ningkun Wu of China, \ 



Nationalist By I 



S$ Money for School $$ 

May 7 - Primary Election 
inlluence: Educational Funding; 



Voters can Create the Future 
Vote for Progress May 7 Elect 
David Roach New Republican 



"Dave Todorqn and the 11th 

Hour" -Friday 
"The Something" - Saturday 



American bourgeois ideology. 






IVopI,--. lu'iuil.lu- 



i.dh ..-tjlilished in Peking. The Wu said thai, because of h 

iment was issued by Mao education, he was suspected of held up . 

j -'patriotic mtellei.-tii.il ' ^MimtiT-n.'V.ihitmiwrv .ictivities as by the p 

originally recruited in 1921 soon ,i&gt; lie rr .-iiU'ivd I'tinu However, picture 

ts of the Communist Inter- he said, he tried hard to conform and na u s _ ni 

I Marxist theories to brought back from i!ie V : 

Tina with?" the student accus 
ivel was "The Great Gatsby' 



painted finger- agenls , 



M'"»S 


„ foln , r ,., in „, 1 




ndio 










, ,l„.,|.l.. 






.1. „„,„.!, 














May 


, Weill Slrool 


1\\l \.- 




oor lounge, 10 






Prc.onloJ liy 


I,„„1,M 


v,i. 


no., 483-2654. 




■N|.l.,„i,si W„ 



Knj;li-.li .1. p.uhii.' Il,i|.,.-,l m I'l.i; 

' l * "j I'lll.lIK ilir ip.,n:,i .iimiiisI ll„. in 



Indiana Department of Public Welfare 

Former employee questions programs' policies 



AT SERA TEC WE 

DON'T BELIEVE IN 

TAKING 

CHANCES, 

THAT'S WHY WE... 



• Use Sterile. Disposable Equipment 

- Are inspected and approved annually 

• Require A Physical Exam Prior to Donating Plasma 
(Physician On Premise • Physical Is FREE) 

- Test Every Donation For Hepatitis And The Aids Virus 

• Provide A Pleasant And Relaxing Environment 
HELP US HELP PEOPLE WHO NEED PLASMA 





It took Galileo 16 years to master the universe. 
You have one night. 



It seems unfair. The genius had all ili.il nine while you have a few 
short hours to learn your sun spots from your satellites hefore the 
dreaded astronomy exam. 

On the other hand. Viva™ gives urn the delimit advantage. It helps 
keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. Safely and conveniently So 
even when the subject matters dull mum mind will slu la/or sharp. 

If Galileo had used Vivarin, maybe he could have mastered the solar 
system faster, too. 



(or last pick up -safe as cofk 



Revive with VIVARIN: 




B.M.O.C. 

*(Bank Machine On Campus) 



■ OWL. Just the kind of fl 

s out at The 
Fort everyday. Carries a lot of cash. He's always 
then- lor you. arrytir 
he's a great li 

If 24-hour access to your bank accounts 
sounds like a good deal to you, make friends 
with the OWL. on the ground floor at Walb 
Memorial Union Hall. And gel your free OWL 
card ,it any office ol Furl Wayne National 
Bank. Where helping out our friends is just 



Business as Usual. 



FOHTWAYNt 

tints my BANK 



Features 



THE COMMUNICATOR 




during yunr senior year, you may 
qualify for .1 live-month Internship 



Prof file 


_j Michael Kaufmann | 






IPFW English professor 
enjoys students, flowers 

Dept English and Linguistics 

Degree-. m.rliT'. rniver.alv of lllini.i- 
l.achel-rs - s-mtiMTf, Illinois, Urbandale 

All he needs Is a pipe. To see Michael 
Kaulm.mn -diking through the halls of 

the proto-type of English professors. 

classes. 2i.it.li century American liolton, and 
several different composition classes 




with Confluence It | S fun lo have something g.ong thai hasn't boon here (or a 

Kaufmann and the Confluence staff are currently working on the third 
issue smee Hit- return &lt;il the publication. 

Alone, with Ins activities ,il school. Kaufmaiin en|,i\- Ins lamilv and !us 
flower-, lie is married and has .1 four-year-old daughter. 

"1 am interested in wild flowers and prairie plants." noted Kaufmann. "I 
glow lln-io at hum.' ami g 1 &lt;&gt;n v.. ill;:- 1 l..i,|.; |,,i wild flowers." 

Kaufniaiiii said lie enjoys ll'I'U the no. si lor its students. "I like the 
diversity of the sludenl body If- Hie nm-i mien-sling ami Hie hardest Hung 

mis. esf.H- ( iall&gt; in literature classes." 



Counter 



and horrifying digestiv 



freedom of speech. "Trying to stop the 



i, the only entity in China tl 



carried by donkey 



continued to decline In the fall of Institute of 
were drastically reduced due to a since July 1 



Welfare 



Hot Licks disappointment 



Parents and Partner 



"There are too many 
heid"bTw5^'"The inconsistencies in the 

Percussion Center's Music Spectrum SyStem...l Couldn't fJO it 

any more." 

my life Vv'e only been "laving toi tould hardly keep r 
1 thought 1 was pretty finally gol r 

len I played ; 




person...481-6273. 



IU Credit Union 



Sports 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



GLVC tennis 

Mead brings home championship 






Rni^«W 



LU^HUlTU 

PLUS THOUSANDS 
' OTHER PRIZES 

FREE GAMECARD FOR EACH BOOK YOU SELL 




The Ultimate Roadtrip: a 1991 Ford Probe LX, plus 10 nights at 
Fairfield Inn by Marriott, and $200 cash for gas 



Q FIRST PRIZES. 

Pepsi® Mini-Vending Machine, plus a free "year's supply" (52 cases) of Pepsi products. 1™*^! 



© 



Aquaterra "Spectrum" kayak, complete with helmet, life vest, and paddle. - — " ' 



GET CASH AND A CHANCE TO WIN FOR EVERY BOOK YOU SELL! 



ROADTRIP 




Kettler Hall 



483-6100 



US 



Available Only 
at Our Bookstore 



Follett's 



