Indian a University • Purdue University • Fort Wayne 

The Communicator 



INSIDE: 



I What's Weird? g Upset Minded 

All over Mars and the Jackson Arnie's Army drop defend™ 

family issues National Champions 



1 1 Saw that Coming 

'Along came Polly' nothing 
new for Stiller 



Volume 34, Issue 18 



www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Wednesday, February 4, 2004 



Mr. Belding teaches IPFW 

Dennis Haskins of 'Saved By The Bell' fame gave a lecture at IPFW 
Jan. 28, taking questions and discussing how to achieve life ambitions 



The Communicator 



Asking the average student 
to name a famous princip.il. and 
the name Belding would likely 
escape their lips. For many 20- 
somet lungs, Mr. Belding, aka 
Dennis Hawkins (from "Saved By 
the Bel!" fame) will have a special 
place in their heart. 

Last Wednesday, many IPFW 
students had the chance to meet 
the Big Bopper in person. A little 
elder than when the original show 
went off the air,' ten years to be 
exact, it was obvious with the roar 
of applause and the full ballroom, 
that although oft the air, the show 
hadn't been forgotten. 

Deonte Brewer, sophomore, 
was sitting in the audience when 
Haskins took the stage. 
Proclaiming himseli .is "Saved By 
the Bell'"s biggest fan, Brewer 
quickly became .1 crowd favorite 
when he easily won the trivia con- 
test hosted by Haskins, an easy 
who's been 1 I. in 



"'Saved By the Bell' epito- 



iforn 



mized e 

It gave me an escape out of every- 
day life and it was just a blessing 
that Dennis came to IPFW. He 
encouraged me to follow my 
dreams, - ' commented Brewer. 

Few knew what to expect 
from the actor, not knowing if 
they were going to be witness to a 
stand up act, a motivational 
speech, or an hour spent recalling 
all the good stories from back in 
the days of Bayside High. What 
the audience received was a blend 
of all three. 

Haskins was interviewed by 




Photo by Scott M. Lawson 
Ryan Lough, freshman, raises his hand to answer a question while Dennis Haskins 

through a "Saved by the Bell" trivia contest with several students. The trivia, 
among other things is part of Haskins' "Mr. Belding on Campus" act. 






to the firsi ihing penplc tell 
member of the Kappa Sigma l-r.iternilv! when vou - ^cause it's not always correct," advised 
he worked with sUident government him. 'in- Haskins. "Take advantage's of the opporb 
acts to school. He spoke about the struggles he Ue - V ou can now - because you'-" '- 
faced on his way to becoming famous. He j""ndation lor your futures. ] 
turned away 



to the audience his tlieori 
successful. 

"Don't take no for 1 



1 how to become 



Haskins recalled entE 
from the cast and the show, j 
pie an inside view of the 



"You haven't lived until you've been 
ith Screech at the White House," remarked 
laying the Haskins. Haskins admits that Screech seems to 
1 you to at be the overall favorite ol the show's fan base. 
ing about "I get more questions about Screech than 

Zack or Slater 1 get asked lor Tiffany's (Kelly) 
ig stories phone number, but that's another story," 
nany peo- remarked a laughing Haskins. 



Continued c 



LE2S1 



Students strive 
for Mars with 
rover project 



By K.E. Casey 
The Communicator 




z^vE 


i-rontrolle 
making Hi 



ability 

as -the 



hi- Mid 






devi 
ingi 

"ITT industries approached Dr 
Elizabeth Thompson and pro- 
posed doing a joint ITT/IPFW 
project with two seniors," 
Harmison continued, "Their goal 

applications of Wireless LAN 
Networks, like those used wireless 
networks and Internet connec- 
tions," he said. 

"Wireless transmission of any- 



transniisMim in our research and il 
currently ... allows us to drive our 
robot without actually seeing the 
robot," he continued, 

"The main idea with our robot, 
wo separate laptops. 



Continued on Page 2 



January, fourth snowiest on record 



record, according to the National Weather 



2004 that is fourth all time in terms of snowfall for the 

A total of 20.3 inches of snowfall cascaded down 
on the Summit City last month, and more snowfall is 
in the forecast for the rest of this week - along with 
temperatures that haven't been above the freezing 



Sabones of the Northern Indiana district, this season is 
hard to predict in the Midwest. 

"The winter is very difficult to forecast in this part 
of the country in a long-distance range," Sabones 
explained. 

That's because influences on the weather, mainly 
El Nino and La Nina, cause mixed conditions to the 
Midwest. Those conditions have usually caused 
warmer and dryer winters, he said - but officials 
explain it is very hit-and-miss when it comes to what 
those influences will do. 

During this winter, neither of the Pacific Ocean 
phenomenas have existed. 

"There isn't any strong dm ing force steering the 
weather in this part of the United States," Sabones 

Because of that, he said there are equal chances 




Colors of Emotion 




Alternative folk artist Ani DiFranco played at the 
Scottish Rite on Jan. 27. For more on the show, sei 
page 6. 




IPFW students turned 
soldiers speak of their 
daily lives while at 
war in Iraq 



return from iraq feature page 2 



"•1 2 



Lady Dons battles 
University of Texas 
Pan Am at Gates 



, ' ;i ' 



women vs. ut-pan 




_ i_ — _ 



Page 2 The Communicator 



News 



February 4, 2004 



Mms Mmefu 

Another career 
day draws near 

i he ■ hi ol ol i ncineering mid 

fo hnol v ill i ■ "i ■&gt; 

la] onFob '. II.. . ■ ., 

IV, II !■. InLI III W.lll. I1.III i 

9l »'i'i 









rail I 



Athletics offer 
fitness classes 

ii„ athletics deportmenl will 
|.r offering p era! fitne i la 

it eh Hi. month ..I 



Omnibus Series 
returns 







Lunch with a 
scientist 



.'M'l I imk.ilUms 



■■&lt;■ fbi membi i Foi info, 




the National Guard 1st Batt.il 
293rd. 

One year ago, ihey \ 



the desert heal .mil the 



isked if I would like 



i how they pitched 
h training exercise. 



The potenti.il for violence 
hecanie reality within minutes of 
touching down in the Middle 
East, Rosario explained. 



duty, Striggle dealt with the 
■ incoming war as a fact in his 

head, even as he hoped against it 



hoped that 
go to war, but it seemed like it 
was going to happen no matter 
what NIJC was niir biggest con- 
While there was the anxiety 
about the possible use of NBCs, 
few America troops worried that 
Iran would attempt to strike first 
with any weaponry. 

"There was a little concern. 
But even though we all ttumght 
Saddam was pretty much crazy, 
we didn't think he was stupid," 
Striggle said. 

As the war began, Rosario 
could see in the distance as U.S. 
cannons pounded the Iraqi fence- 

"From that day forward, it 
was just an adrenaline rush the 
whole way up there," he said. His 
unit crossed the border on the 
first dav of the war. 

"We knew that the danger 
was there, but we weren't freak- 
ing out," lie said Anxiety built up 
as they approached cities where 
thev knew thev muld face attacks 
- along with anxiety came alert 

"It was nerve-racking and 
scary but I kept a cool head to 
keep my spirits up," he said. 
Prior to the war, they devoted 



to gearing up 
and equipment in case hos- 
tilities broke out, Rosario said. Of 
course, nothing ever goes as 
planned. Thev were reminded of 
that March 20, as they rolled into 
enemy territory. 

'On our way into Iraq, we 
hit a bump and lost our trailer- 
Broke the hitch completely off so 
we had to do some quick rigging. 
Even with careful planning, 
things go wrong," Rosario said. 

Striggle, a member of the 
inlanlrv, was used as foice protec- 
tion, and rolled into Iraq a few 
weeks later on U.S. Army rive-ton 
trucked. There was a tension for 
the troops as they rode into the 

"You're basically sitting 
ducks. ]f there's any sniper activ- 
ity, there's not much you can do 



show of force," he said. 

Once his unit established 
force protection, Striggle felt few 
threats. While he occasionally 
saw tracer fire, most of the fight- 
ing took place between Iraqis 
striking out against one another. 

But he knows he was lucky 
to not experience more attacks or 



earls spent four months there. A 
lot ol people were there for a cou- 
ple days - and they still see some 



Rosario worked as part of a 
unit which fired rockets from 
vehicles and pounded enemy 

"We kept hearing they had 
forces lined up around [i.iglulad 
airport," he explained. The Iraqi 
army was set for a stand off - but 
American forces Rosario was 
with disrupted the dug in troops. 
A battalion of American person- 
nel launched over 35 rockets 
essentially at the same time, 
Rosario said. 

"That was amazing to see 
rockets going oil to the It'll, right 
everywhere - all heading toward 
the same spot," he said. He 
described it as "loud and bright. It 
lit up the sky." 

The vehicles used to launch 
the rockets are able to shoot a 
dozen at a time, and as they came 
down, submunitions added to 
their destructive power. 

One incident is etched into his 
memory - an explosion that took 
place inside his own post inside 
the desert. He said he's still 
unsure what happened, but an 
Army report has said it was pos- 
sibly a case of friendly-fire. 

"It was nighttime and we 
had perimeter guards. I had just 
woken up for my shift at 3 a.m. 
The sky was pitch black, but we 
have rockets going off. All of the 
sudden, I hear a big explosion 
Continued on Page 3 



Finding your future 




IPFW student Robin F. Grimm and Ivy Tech student Paul Forbing fil 
out job applications at the Travis Broadcasting/IPFW career fair on 
Friday, Jan. 30. 



Mars Rover 



from Page 1 



"Most of the parts were already ma 
facfured," said Harmison, "the trick i 
making them work with each other." 

Harmison and Carper prepared a f 
posal to earn funding for the project ; 
get their design approved before 



for the robot. 

"The main compromise we made was 
with the robot base," said Harmison. "It 
ended up costing more to get it fixed than 
it would have it we had purchased a good 



Forward with the project, according to 
Harmison. 

The Students researched several ideas 
while deciding what kind of project to 
pursue. 

"We say many people trying to use 
robots as a design, but ITT wanted to have 
two to three ideas. ..due to our zeal and 
the curiosity in robotics Harmison, ITT, 
and I alt agreed on creating the wireless 
controlled robot," said Carper. 

"The robot was primarily built at ITT 
industries," said Carper. The process of 
building the robot took over 1,500 hours 
according to Harmison and cost approxi- 
mated $3,1X10. ITT supplied many of the 
parts for the robot and brought the cost 
down to approximately SI, 50(1, according 

During construction, design flaws were 



"Most of the robot's physical parts were 
bolted together, but when it came to the 
wiring soldering became required to com- 
plete connections," said Carper. 

Currently the students are running tests 
on the robot at the ITT laboratories, 
though the exact nature of the tests has not 
been disclosed. 

"In the current configuration, the 
Wireless Controlled Robot (WCR) is capa- 
ble of entering enclosed areas that might 
be too small for a person to safely enter 
without being trapped," said Carper. 

"(We're) realh pleased everyone was so 
very interested in our project and ... I 
hope this has a positive effect on IPFW as 
well as the Engineering Department," said 



Editorial Board 

Scotl M. Lawson, Editor 

S.G. Wahlberg, Managing Eiliior 

Dan Vance. News Editor 

Kurtis Meyers. Am &amp; Entertainment Edit 

Nick West, Sports Editor 

Katie Pruitl. Copy Editor 

Alicia LaytOll, On Campus Editor 

K.K. Casey, Chief Reporter 
Amanda Pierce, Advertising Manager 
Josh Vargas, Advertising Designer 
Done Reynolds. Publisher 



Contact Us Editorial Policy 



The Communicator 
Walb Union; Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Editor: (260)481-6584 

Publisher: (260) 481-6585 

Advertising: (260) 481-6583 

Fax: (260)481-6045 



•;."* 



ions expressed do not necessari- 
ly reflect the views of IPFW. its 
employees or its student body. A 
column is solely the opinion of 
its author. 

The Communicator wel- 
comes responses from readers. 
Letters to the Editor and guest 
columns must he signed, dated 
and accompanied by a current, 
valid address telephone number 
and class standing/major or title. 



All submissions made via e- 
mail will be verified by tele- 
phone or in person. Addresses 
and telephone numbers will not 
be published. 

Submissions must be typed, 
double-spaced and no more than 



100 i 



H Ox 



The editorial board of The 
Communicator reserves the 
right to edit all submissions lor 
leneih. eraminar. style and clar- 
ity. Letters deemed libelous by 



upfwcommunicator.org &amp;&amp;££$£ 



February 4, 2004 



News 



The Communicator Page 3 



Belding Teaches 

from Page 1 



(he earn elhtion of I In- i.i 



created. Taking some of the 

original cast and mixing in 
i, the produc- 



ginal That 
uked Haskins. 

Although the show \ 



live look back." 

Being Mr. Belding has it 
share of good and bad, bu 



Haskins reminded the large part of pop culture fo 

audience that it was ten years people of that generation 

ago since the original cast last being Mr. Belding, Haskin 

aired a new show, and that was given the opportunity ti 



going to be okay 
until we beat Bugs 
Bunny in the rat- 
ings," said Haskins. 
Haskins has 
his own theory as 
to why the show 



"You haven't lived 

until you've been 

with Screech at 

the White House." 

-Dennis Haskins 



the role so much because he 
always tried to do what was 
right for the kids," said 
Haskins. Although the pro- 



of the cast had moved Belding because il means peo- 
&gt;iggt'r and belter things. pie art' watching the show. If 
Honestly, I don't think being recognized can help 



ducers would often put Mr. 



b would (do a reunion), you encourage others to foil 

n't go back and play the their dreams, I'm glad to have 

Belding into unusual situa- characters. The last time I the chance to nudge them into 

tions, Haskins encouraged the worked with the original cast going for it," concluded 

producers to keep his charac- was in 1993," commented Haskins. 



Return from Iraq 

from Page 2 



and a bright light behind us," he said. would just talk to the majority of the people 

Two Humvees less than a hundred yards on the streets, thev would hear otherwise," 
awayjrom Rosario were destroyed by the Striggle noted. 

'They were so appreciative. We tried to 
make a difference, but it was such a matter of 
time before we could help everyone. We're 
trying to get it done as soon as possible," 



witnessed the 
triumpth. Thev both were able to witness stat- 
ues of Saddam as they crumbled and his 



Wayne and may be displayed 
museum, Striggle said. 

Striggle was on in 
duty when he was pulled 
enlistment ends in the fall, and he has- 
n't decided if he'll reenlist. Right 
he's leaning against the idea. 

"I want to start going 
parts of my life. I'm happy 1 
was a great experience," he said. 

Rosario is now in the National 
Guard out of Indianapolis. He isn't fear- 
ful of being called back to deploy again. 



month c 

"In the mist of being so miserable a 
time with the he.it and sandstorms, we hai 
great time Espeaalh looking back, you c 



go again," he said. 

Dancing in the desert 
Rosario takes with him. He said he 
appreciated the militaries attempt to 
keep morale up by holding night; 



for members of the 
armed forces. He recalled talent shows, 
and dances including R &amp; B and Salsa. 
Striggle and Rosario agreed that - 
despite the hardships Iraqis are facing - 
they appreciate the liberation of the 
country from Hussein's regime. 
"(The media) are making it look like 
they don't like the Americans. If they 










JMragJpII4M 








1 | _ !imi W-'m-w'M 


l-j" *&amp;' ^^ li, 




I -%■!&gt;■ LL — ir 






W- 


• Currently hiring photographers. No previous 

experience needed. 

• Stop by Walb 215 for more information 





The Principal and the Pupil 

A one-on-one experience with Dennis Haskins 



The Comrr 



Slmplj put, he was a sign ol the 
times, Growing up, nobody wanted more 

than to he like the people on \n ed llir 

Bell." 

And oh yes, we all wanted a princi- 
pal like Mr. Belding. 

When the opportunity arose to intei ■ 

Dennis Haskins, there was no way 1 



ESIrfcTSfSSS- i 



Whi 

all did.' Cl ' V,R ' ^ 

I have interviewed dozens of people 
in the last five years, but everytime is dif- 
ferent. Haskins was no exception. 

I have talked to some moderately 
known names, but Haskins was different. 
I spent nearly every Saturday morning ot 
my youth watching him. And now, I was 
sitting next to him, having a one-on-one 



U\ 



t I thou 



fa 



»tag "Hey, 

.lure of Mr 



uldbe 



;ird. 



r celebrity 



Never ha 
than Haskins. Congenial, funny, he \ 
damn good interview, 

So in turn with hi;, easy going per- 
sonality, it was not very hard for me to sit 
down on stage with him. No matter how 
many people, dedicated fans were watch- 
ing. 

If Haskins did 
anything that day, it 
made everyone feel 
right at home It was 
"Saved by the Bell" 
live and in person. 

From the second 1 
was introduced to 
Haskins, just a half an 
hour before 1 took the 
stage w ilh him, I knew 
he would be a diller- 



cool" as a youth. I dot 
only one that wanted to be like Zach 
Moms, back in the day. And this, this was 
my little Bayside. As dumb as that may 
sound, it's true. We all wanted that little 
Bayside vibe, or else we would not have 
wasted out time going to the event. 

I guess, when you really think about 
it, my experience was not entirely unique. 

Just like the fans in the audience, I 
was just another "big kid" reliving a part 
of my pop culture youth. 



Whether clear 
from the crowd view 
or not, Haskms did 

celebrity of any kind. 
He sat down to 





All the World's a Stage: Supporting the 
Transformation from Exclusion to Inclusion 



Monday, Feb. 9, 2004, 7:30 p.m. 
IPFW Walb Student Union Ballroom 

Known across generations as the compassionate and 
tireless Father Ray Mukada in the controversial HBO 
series Oz, forensic psychiatrist Dr. Huang on NBC's 
law and Order: SVU, and as the voice of Captain Li 
Shang in Disney's Mutan, B. D. Wong tells how his 
career choice has forced him to not only accept but 
embrace his racial identity. 



Free public lecture T Free parking 



n Sign Language interpreter provided upon request. 
Lecture funded by a gram from the English, Bonier, Mitchell Foundation. 
Media sponsors. Northeast Indiana Public Radio and NewsCbannel 15. 



Affirmative action/Equal opportunity 




Page 4 The Communicator 



Opinions 



February 4, 2004 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or 

abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the 

right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the 

government for a redress of grievances. 



Editorials 



Primary concerns 



• ith which tnp.irticip.itL'. Miejble 



vho .in- highlighted in the process. Some years, it's the other side. And in 
rlmariea - paid lor by every taxpayer - are closed to half of them, 
millions via the state .is it is. As of 2002, the Indiana GOP and Democrats 

nufih the BMV's vanity pl.ile proe/.im. And it wasn't a few thousand dol- 

ibout $1.4 million earned through people l&gt;o\ me, vanity plates for their 
mapolis Star, as of 2(102, the vanity plate cost S-l-S. Ol that, $30 was "an 



ii.i|.. 



'ell if they are elected. At best 



there are no other strong par 
hough they bicker along party lines, they 
h which they'd have to contend, 
.'ote in them, you have to declare a party 
icily in the murky politics of today, 
ir the opposition would cross the lines in 
ill percentage of voters who take the time 
t might actually happen is voters would 



t the most 
i get bitchy legislators who are too 
i government. 

ependenl structures away from gov- 
ut if the two parties want to use tax- 
ig primary ballots, then they should 
ineeches oi their own belly design. 



eplal 



,ith the 



Stupid intelligence 



onday it might be time to rev 
rgues with any validity that r 
'ears ago when an alternation 

itire war was the promotion c 
Iraqi rebels after his father's 



bad intelligent lie received prior to the 
DVing Saddam Hussein was a bad concept. It 
:oalition which knew at that point of 

Bush could have given a mea culpa for the 
varwith Hussein. "The evidence for any 
to Sept. 11 was weak and the go-in-alone theory showed our politicians as 
ion. it thugs, not peacemakers. 

I&gt; ■ drilled im i \f,ir any experts who have said weapons no longer existed; that Iraq wasn't an 
ale lhre.il to the United Stales. He will continue to deny any wrong doing - and an investigation 
wn administration will lead to a few firings. 

.it tlir tie.li! vv ith Iraq that was unjustified iiul lies, even if their ultimate goal is to free a popula- 
rays look ridiculous at the very least. Bush should have given us, and his troops, some credit 
n more Innelul with the reasoning, 
idn't. It seems Bush tried to use the tragedy of September 11, 2001 as momentum to remove 

It seems he worried that by removing a brutal dictator in Iraq, people worldwide would see 
i a-- enmg alter .m\ regime occasionally abusing their people. 
would mean we'd expand our Axis of Evil to countries like China and Saudi Arabia. That's the 

slope Bush ma\ have been avoiding, but in doing so he slipped off a much muddier one. 
&gt;e we d be better ofl taking on a stance of beating up on school bullies. Other nations would 
.en that into consideration when it comes in their human rights violations. Instead, we look like 
the play ground )ust looking for a fight to please our own machismo - with the positives o'f the 
.'ing tainted with a stupid reasoning for the initial swing. 
• needs to be a I ongression.il investigation into the intelligence situation. Bush wants to avoid it 

it would be dirty during an election year. Maybe he should ol thought of that before launching 
i weak premises. 



Word of the Week: 
Mammary gland 



So. Janet Jackson's breast How about that. 

Super Bowl XX Will was quite a show, including excellent athletes, stel- 
lar plays, amusing commercials, and ni.imm.irv glands. Bare ones. 

The actual game itself was amazing Commentators complained that 
there were no big-name players in the arena, and thus it would be a poor 
game. Last Sunday they were proven wrong. With most of the scoring 
taking place during the last two quarters of the game, ending with a field 
goal that broke every Panther fan's heart, the Super Bowl game was cer- 
tainly nothing to scoff at. Even the less football-inclined among us found 
the fourth quarter an event worth watching. 

Sadly, the million-dollar commercials were less than pleasing. There 
was a time when I he commercials were quirky, clever, and hilarious. This 
year they followed the recent trend in foregoing humor for political cor- 
rectness, subjecting us to such "deeply meaningful messages" as "one in 
every five children tries a cigarette before they turn thirteen." Sorry, CBS, 
but if you're going to turn down the Move-On org commercial because it 
is too political, don't replace it with blither about smoking. People watch 
the Super Bowl to be entertained, not preached to. The one saving grace 
was the beer commercials, which are consistentlv tunny, regardless of the 
political atmosphere There's nothing quite as amusing as a donkey try- 
ing his darndest to be a Clvdesdale horse. 

Then there was the halttime show, a frenetic, hip-thrusting music-mash, 
filled with clashing genres and overdone pyrotechnics, choreographed in 
the typical A.D.D. generation style. The jerky, 30-second bursts of music 
were interspersed with strangelv dressed darners and huge balloon cur- 
tains spouting projected messages of peace, love, and the end of illitera- 
cy. It was the product of too much money, too much star power, and a cre- 
ative team that was trying way too hard. 

Now on to Janet's boob. 

CBS, claims it was a "vyardrobe malfunction." Yes, that's right, her 
wardrobe, experienced a blue screen malfunction and had to be rebooted. 
CBS claims they watched the half time show being rehearsed everyday of 
the week before, and that the breast-baring was accidental. 

The more likely story is that Jackson and Timberlake had the whole 
thing planned beforehand and simply "forgot" to tell the censors what 
was going on. Here's the evidence the 'unveiling" was oddly coinciden- 
tal to the end of Timberlake s song, the closing lyrics ol which are "Gonna 
have you naked by the end of this song." Also, Janet happened to be 
wearing an unusually uncomfortable looking metal piercing shaped like 
a sunburst. Generally, women do not wear these things under their cloth- 
ing unless thev intend to show them to someone. 

Perhaps they really are two innocent millionaires who were suckered 
by the evil wardrobe gnomes, but this writer wouldn't bet on it. 
Hopefully next year, CBS will use stronger stitches. 



The 

Communicator 

Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions 

expressed in editorials or opinion columns do not necessarily reflect the 
i of 1PFW, its employees or its student body. A column is solely the 
opinion of the author. 

The Comminicaior welcomes responses from readers. All Letters to the 
Editor and guest columns must be signed, dated and accompanied by a 
current, valid address, telephone number, and class standing/major oi 
title. Telephone numbers and addresses will not be printed. AH submis- 

10ns made vie e-mail will be verified by telephone or in person. 

The editorial board reserves the right to edit all submissions for length, 
grammar, style and clarity. 




Campus 



"What is your worst weather related experience this winter?" 



E 



Josh Bishir, 
Sophomore: 


r 


H Nick K aiiier, 

■ Freshman:"] 


"1 backed up 
into a pole 




^M was heading 


when I went 


w 


^ Kendallville 


snowboard - 


r 


H to Fort 


ing." 


1 --ft_fcJ about 40 




miles a 
started 
degrees 
miles a 


t hour, and my jeep 
skidding about ten 
left, still going 40 
i hour." 



n 



Rebecca 
Fitzgerald, 



My 



Seni 

down, I still 
owe three 
thousand do 
lars on it, an 




Stas 


| 




H Tavo O jo. 


Malylehin, 




'*u 


■ Freshman: 


Freshman: 




L r 


■ "Thisisprob- 


"Nothing I'm 




M 


■ ablv one of 


not used to. 


I 


m 


Hi the worst 


I'm from 


1 


Ti 


^M winters. I left 


Moscow." 


1 


\A 


^M my car out- 
side the 




garage and the battery died. 




It' 


getti 


ng pretty chilly." 



February 4, 2004 



Opinions 



The Communicator Page 5 



The boob that broke 
the camel's back 



after the big game? Is it the touchdown 
runs, the offense or the defense? 

Or was it the lip-synched nightmare of 
the half-time show? 

What exactly is a "wardrobe malfunc- 
" anyway" 



makers of Tivo recorded the largest 
use of the playback function to watch the 
so-called spontaneous artistic expression 
again, and again, and again. 

Various puns on the "titular" nature of 
today's television have been raised by the 
churlish media who continues to perpetu- 
ate the buzz over the incident. The FCC 
has even opened up an investigation into 
whether or not decency standards were 
violated. The punishment lor the violation 
can go as high .is S27,^K), according to an 
Associated Press, article published thedav 
after the incident. In fact, as the report 
states, there is even a movement in 
Congress by means of legislation to 
increase the fine up to $275,000. 

The FCC can spout all the high-minded 
rhetoric it wants. It can threaten every sin- 
gle CBS affiliate with the fine (as it is pos- 
sible to do under the law), but where has 
this defender of standards been before? 
After all, this was the same FCC that said 
the use of the "f-word" is permissible on 
network television. 

Ninety million people watched the 
Super Bowl last Sunday during prime- 
time hours. With millions of dollars at 
stake, the NFL handed over the most- 
watched half-time show to MTV, who 
promptly provided the American public 
with a freakish nightmare. Truly, the only 
thing worth watching was the marching 
band. Between the impossibly dirty Kid 
Rock (singing the same song that has fed 
his gravy train for years) wearing the 
American flag as a poncho and the 
dancers dressed like the characters from 
Mad Max, it seems as if Ms. Jackson's 
chest exposure was just one of many prob- 



lems with the production. 

As I watched the garish spectacle I 
thought to myself: this is the state of 
American entertainment This is America's 
premier export and it consists of a hillbil- 
ly defacing the flag, a medley of songs 
about se\. and for a finale, a partial expo- 
sure of a breast. Yes, I thought, this is my 
generation As it all of this wasn't enough, 
the producers of the show had the gall to 
throw in a public service announcement 
encouraging people to vote. 

The problem lies not with the indecent 
exposure of Ms. iackson, which only last- 
ed mere seconds anyway. And if Ms. 
lacksun is to be believed, there was sup- 
posed to be "a bit of red lace left behind" 
according to a statement posted on the 
Drudge Report. While this act is nothing 
more than attention seeking and yet 
another plummet of decency on television, 
the problem lies in the culture that thinks 
this is entertainment. 

Just how far will the American public 
let television go 7 Following the lead of 
HBO cable television which has tried to 
take more risks and in many cases it has 
paid off economically; "CS1," one of the 
top-rated shows of any network, pushes 
the envelope iveekk on just what can and 
cannot be said and what can and cannot be 
shown. It is my favorite television show, 
yet at times it still makes me cringe. 

Is all the shock on television really nec- 

CBS has led the way, trying to shed its 
older audience in exchange for the more 
lucrative younger viewing audience, start- 
ing with the Victoria Secret fashion show 
and continuing the trend with the half- 
time show. Just how far will broadcasters 
go in pursuit of the dollars of the youth? 
More importantly — how far will we let 
them go? 

Time will most likelv prove this inci- 
dent to amount to nothing. All of the blus- 
ter and all of the calls to boycott CBS will 
die down, and we lose yet another battle 
in the standards for decency on television 
when the FCC does absolutely nothing 
the? 
nut the pr 
fines and threaten I 
doesn't matter. 

It's not the stunt — it's not the partici- 
pants (both of whom have apologized, 
anyway), it's a sign of the times. 

So hand me a poncho made of the 
American flag, turn on the karaoke 
machine and get out the post-apocalyptic 
dancers, it's half time forever. 



What's Weird: 

Red Planet or Planet of the Apes? 



Before this column gets rolling, I 
t all of the readers to know that I'm 
i very political guy. I don't know the 
cacies of the political system. I don't 
sit down and crunch numbers, listen to 
what every politician has to say (or not 
say) or watch MSNBC 22 hours a day. 
However, I pav enough attention to know 
who and what I like and why. 

Aight, topic one: Mars. President 
Dubya loves the red planet, oops, 1 mean 
"salmon" colored planet as NASA now 
calls it. 

"It is a subject that is important to 
this administration. It's a subject that is 
mightily important to the country and to 
the world," said President Bush on Jan. 14 
about the U.S. Space Policy. 

Gee, thanks buddy. I guess by 
country and world, you mean me too. Let 
me get this straight, our government is 
dropping billions and billions of dollars on 
NASA so they can launch some rover up 
there to send us back nice and prettl pic- 
tures. I like pretty pictures, I really do. 
The five-by-two foot one in my apartment 
with Britney Spears on it is U-N-B-E-L-I-E- 
V-A-B-L-E. (Insert Homer Simpson drool- 
ing over donuts and Duff beer sound 
here). But shouldn't we look at the 
grander scheme of things? Like the fact 



afford their own clothes? Or how about 
the starving mother and 7-year-old child 
on the comer of Pennsylvania Avenue in 
D.C. who can't even get a Suit walking to 
his Mercedes to give them a dollar for a 
loaf of bread? What about the inner city- 
schools that can't afford enough books foi 



Mr. Elephant, Mr. Cheney, Mr. Current 
Administration, please look out the win- 
dow of your White House office. There 
are too many issues at your backdoor for 
you to be worrying about what is happen- 
ing to Mrs. Salmon the next block down. 
What is weird? The infamous Jim Mora, 
former Indianapolis Colts head coach, 
quote with the substitution of a few key 



feed another starving child!' 

Well, since I'm on this "anti-Bush" 
thing — if you want to call it that - lets go 
with the Patriot Act. The Act, passed 45 
days after 9/11, vastly expanded the gov- 
ernment's powers to search and trace most 
anything any American does. Using your 
credit card today? Big Brother knows. 
Surfing the Internet between classes? 
Uncle Sam's gotcha. Friends with some- 
one who emigrated here from Pakistan 
after 9/11? The Man can search your 
house if he wants to. Talking on your cell 
phone to your dad about how much you 
can't stand Bush? Oh man, the FBI heard 
that one! 

What ts weird? Another great 
quote from George Orwell's "1984." "Big 
Brother is watching you." 

Pulling a big 180 here and moving 
onto other weird things: The Jackson 
Family. I know, they are easy targets, but 
it's so fun. Do you really think Janet 
Jackson D1DNT mean to do that? Her 
career is in the dumps, Justin hates Britney 
and wanted to outdo the kiss with 
Madonna, and Janet showing her boob in 
front of 89 million people averts a lot of 
attention away from her weird-ass brother. 
Ha, and now onto Michael Jackson. Now 
this guy is just too easy. What's weird 
about him? Everything. But how about 
hanging his child over a balcony while 
looking like a Ari from "Planet of the 



to the same time 1 Now THAT'S v- 



Adventures in a winter 
wonderland 



hood aside trom Christmas and Christmas 
break, snow has been winter's one redeem- 
ing quality. 

Snow means snow delays and even 
though I'm out of the local K-12 school sys- 
tem. I still am somehow clinging to the pos- 
sibility that I'll see IPFW come across that 
little bar at the bottom of the screen. 

I'd have better odds waiting tor gas prices 
to drop below $1 again. 

The Almighty itself would have to appear 
to Wartell and tell him to close, before it 
would ever happen. Okay, maybe not really, 
I mean they nave closed before, at least 
that's what the old folks tell us However, it 
could be another one of those stories they 
tell the younger generations so that we 
don't lose all faith in the human condition, 
kind of like Santa Claus, and the tooth fairy. 

Last Tuesday, as I got out the shovel to dig 
the tunnel from my house to my car, I ques- 
tioned whether this was some ridiculous 
nightmare. 

Every time I'd make a dent in the drifts, 
and I would toss the snow off to the side, I'd 
tum back and not see where I had just been. 
Finally, 1 jusl gave up all hope, and walked 
through the drifts. It took awhile, but I 
think I'm starting to regain the feeling in my 
body, thanks to the brisk 15 below zero 
wind chill. I found the highest drift in my 
driveway, and started uncovering my car. 

Now, don't misunderstand me, I like the 
winter. Wintertime means it's time to play 
my favorite game: "find the road." 

The only difference between the road and 
the ditch was a slight drop of about two 
inches where the snow hadn't quite filled up 
the ditches yet. Ten minutes later, I was two 
miles closer to school. Two miles down, 33 
left to go. 1 like to think o! limes like this as 
"Survivor, The Home Game" 

Now, one would assume that once you got 
to school, your troubles would be over. Oh 
no, dear reader, as I'm sure you're well 
aware, campus is yet another battle in the 
war of winter. Dodging sliding cards, 
avoiding sliding into the parked cars, guess- 
ing where the driveways and curbs are, and 
avoiding the ever-present bobcat plow are 
just some of the challenges that await those 
of US lucky, or perhaps unlucky, enough to 
make it to school. 

After guessing where the lines tor my spot 
are, I turn off my car, and bundle back up 
ala "the kid from The Christmas Story," just 
to make my way into the building. As I 
arrive to my building, caked in snow, slip- 
ping and sliding across the tile floors, I think 
to myself about how if I'd only slip, perhaps 
my tuition would be taken care of, at least 

Somehow, I manage to make it past the ini- 
tial slip and slide, and with squeaky steps, 
trudge down the hall to my class, where I 



Find the inevitable sign. 

"Class is cancelled for today," 

Swearing to myself. 1 head off to waste the 
next hour and a half, until I go to my next 
class. It indeed is held, and all tour of us are 
enthusiastic to be there. I can only think of a 



nor souls who are 
for the tow truck, 
■Iting left behind 



the, 



ool. 



afford to risk 



Secondly. 1 think about my drive home, 
how the darkness makes everything so 
much easier. Now, you may think that's 
drenched in sarcasm, hut at least this way, I 
don't stress out about the big ditch that's 
over to my left, or the tree on my right, it's 
too dark to actually see death around every 



thing that I heard in the cla; 
ai tuallv hekl w ill he repealed the next peri- 
od, because my professor isn't completely 
heartless, and as opposed to the administra- 
tion, understands that class isn't worth 
death or physical harm. 

I understand that for every day campus is 
closed, it means an incredible load of prob- 
lems and paperwork tor the administration 
here at school, but I don't think I'm too far 
ofl with what 1 have to say about that. 

Just deal with it. 

I'm not saying that they should close every 
time that there is a dusting of snow outside, 
We do live in Indiana Snow is inevitable, 
but the fact is, when almost every other 
school, from preschools hi universities, are 
closed, perhaps you should seriously con- 
sider the risks that having class would pose 
to your students. 

I know that we lose money every time we 
close, but how much money are you going 
to lose when someone runs off the road 
going lo school and dies? I'm not even talk- 
ing about the possibility of a lawsuit, 
although Cm sure some lawyer would be 
happy to take that case on, don't worry. 
I'm just saving thai for every student who 
dies on his or her way fo a class that may not 
even be held, that's one less student who's 
going to be around next semester to get 



order lo work, just to he able lo afford their 



over for spring 2(111-1 then again, maybe 
they aren't. Either way, I'll be here, slipping 
,\nJ sliding around the ice rink known as 
the IPFW campus, counting the days until 



Drive safely and be : 
around here should be. 



The Spirit of Columbia 



By Robert Garmong 

■special to The Communicator 
Ayn Rand Institute 



A year ago the ground of east Texas i rem 
bled with the horror overhead. The shock 
waves spread as the worst fears were con- 
firmed: space shuttle Columbia had turned 
from a high-precision machine into a lifeless 



huintliiv a 
lifeeallsl 



lost 



with a degree of shock not equaled since 
Sept. 11, 2001. 

But why such shock? It wasn't the death 
toll: instantly, a potentially far more deadly 
war in Iraq was forgotten like yesierday's 
weather. Nor is it just that astronauts are an 
especially tine group of educated, hard- 
working scientists— before that Saturday, no 
one cared enough even to know their 



Nor is it simply that Americans had for- 
gotten the risks inherent in space flight: no 
one expects automobile or plane crashes, 
but even multi-fatality accidents do not 
traumatize the nation. 

Only something that struck uniquely close 
to the American soul could have caused the 
degree of shock and horror with which we 
responded to the Columbia disaster. 

Pundits and scholars have long debated 
whether America is, at root, a religious or a 
secular culture. In a sense, both are right 
America has a deeper sense of the pro- 
found — that passionate commitment to the 
ideal, which is too often considered the 
exclusive domain of religion — than do other 
nations. 

At their best, Amencans invest the secular 
world of life and happiness here on Earth 
with the same reverence once thought 



al, scientific study of n 

The space program is the condensed 
essence of this American soul. While most 
cultures through history have gazed with 
uncomprehending awe at the vast mysteries 
of space, NASA brings one mystery after 
another into the realm of human under- 
standing While others see only an impossi- 



.: dwell in humility at man's smallness in 
the face of the universe, NASA proudly 
extends our command of that universe 

While others see heavens filled with jealous 
gods, NASA * 
earthly problei 



f solutions to 



and its crew, more than a handful c 
iific experiments. 

It was the grandesl visible expression of 
the best within us: fhe inknselv purposeful, 
heroically disciplined application of the 
rational mind in the service of man's life. 

To appreciate the deepest meaning of the 
space program, one need not support any 
particular approach to space exploration- 
such as the choice of manned versus 
unmanned flights, nor even the existence of 
NASA itself: one can argue, as I do, that 
space exploration should be run by private 
companies. 

But the memory of the fallen astronauls 
requires us fo remember, and revere, the 
spirit of Columbia, which is the essence of 
human greatness. 



Page 6 The Communicator 



arts and entertainment- 



February 4, 2004 



Along Came Predicta 



'.v a similiar pose for the uninspiring 'Along Came Polly 



"Along Came Polly" my rear en. 
like "Along Came The Usual Crap." 

From the opening of the first scene, 
Vou know this is going to be your tvpu.it 
Ben Stiller mi.v n- Ilns is lirsl identified 
when the movie begins with the credits, 
which List about .is long as a U.S. Peace 
Treaty Then, the} toss iii the happy begin- 



After a few moments, and I mea 
moments (nothing in this movie goc 
slow), he runs into Polly, an old acquair 
tance from grade school played by BOOT 
to-be former 'Friend' Jennifer Aniston. On 
thing leads to another, and they start dai 
ing. They swing from Indian restaurant I 



~i liquid numbei 
Now this is wl 



with ,i riiiiruplmtte while s.iying, "Don't 
wear him out loo much Lisa, I need him 
crisp and chipper hack at work" in a very 



iiialvst ivhu 



dictablesi^ 

Stiller movie hYlu.vn him plugging up a 
toilet .liter eating Hindu cuisine and his 
buss rubbing his ears as he urinates, 1 
couldn't focus my attention on the scene. 
The one thing that kepi me looking up 
from the fascinating motif of used bubble- 
gum that encrusted the seat in front of me 
was the fact that Aniston's ferret, which is 
blind, kept running into things. That pro- 
duced a smile across my face every " 



t!Ohr 



rGosh,; 



ly'retog', 



havoc, but what does Ben do? You guess il 
he tells her to take a hike. Now, if he woult 
have told her he was "a man of God now, 
1 would have been a bit more enthralled. 




Along Came Polly 

Starring Ben Stiller and Jennifer Aniston 



Regal Holiday 6 1 2 1 5. 2:40, 4:45. 7 30, 9:30 



tiling different 
I didn'l feel 
happy or 

enlightened 

when the end 

not bursting at 
the seams with 
laughter; I was 



which I had to take a bank loan 
n't surprised nor was 1 interested. It lost 
my attention on too many occasions and 
left me with one thought revolving around 

I just don't understand why Stiller 
can't leave his bubble. Don't get me wrong, 
Ben, you're a great comedian But I think 
America can only handle SO many grunts 
on a toilet thai thev aren't producing thcni- 
selves. I mean, what the hell is "Irritable 
Bowel Syndrome"? Can't they have the 
decency to call it diarrhea! Come on! Are 
we THAT politically cornel these days?! 

But, whomever of you are reading 
this, don't think that I hate Ben stiller 
movies, or hate Jennifer Aniston. I loved 
"There's Something About Mary" and I tol- 
erated "Zoolander and hell, I even watch 
"Friends." But when actors who are as 
established in film and television as 
Jennifer Aniston and Ben Stiller have to 
resort to cursing a Frenchman, lame dance 
moves and hairy men wearing no shirts 
playing basketball in the summer sun, I see 
problems in Hollywood. 

There was one good aspect about this 
movie, 1 do have to admit. The ending. I 
don't mean the fact thai it ended, just the 
ending, aside from Jennifer Aniston 
pulling her blind ferret into a trash can. 
See, Reuben is scared of almost anything, 
so what do you think he does? He throws 
perfectly good cashews on the street, 
stomps them up, and then eats them. Ben 
got ten million for this movie; I novv 
understand why. 

If I was the producer, I would title it 
something more catchy, more grabbing if 
you will, than "Along Came Polly." I 
would aim for something more like 
"['ool.incler" or "There's Something About 
Normalcy." Seeing as how all they seemed 
to do was take me age old story of "boy 
meets girl" and intertwine useless caution 
plugged up toilets and a blind ferret. 




§®DO30DQQaQQ0% 

alendar 



The Christophers, a non-profit organization based on 
Judeo-Christian concepts, Is now taking submissions for their 
17th annual Video Contest for College Students. Just film a 
video five minutes or less that best shows that "one person can 
make a difference," The Christophers want students to realize 
that everyone has the ability and opportunity to shape the world. 
The judges are looking for a good submission that best reflects 
? of The Christophers motto, "It's better to light one 



third place will get $1,000. Five honorable mention prizes \ 
awarded at $100 each. All submitted video must be in NTSC for- 
mat on standard VHS tape. Entries that run over five minutes 
can not be considered. For rules, regulations, and addresses to 
send your submission, please visit their website at www.christo- 
phers.org/contests.html. 



If you are a non-profit or arts and entertainment organization and 
you would like your events published in the Community 
Calendar, send information at least two weeks in advance to 
Kurtis Meyers, A&amp;E Editor, at stupaper@ipfw.edu or fax 481-6045 





February 4, 2004 



A d &amp; E 

arts and entertainment - 



The Communicator Page 7 



Conveying emotion behind 'Moon' 

Senior directs show for final grade 



When is the p i 

I than the product? How about ;■ 
■ 
allows sprint: to 



\oi onlj are hei Monday through 

■ ' ■ -■■lit - it the Studio 

Theatre in Kettlei Hall but, they are 
spent exemplifying her coll 

r her required senior directing proj- 



modem day spectator After seeing 

I I e vcirs Liter, she hopes 

: : :■ \[ ■ | ■■ | | | | | 

P ■ 

.ill others involved 

.... ■ . .: ...i loni I ■ II 

will l&gt;e sitting down w 
inent facult] fol ' 

them and ha 

In rollettion. though tins be nol 
been iv U in the pari! for Feaj lie 

thai "seeing th 

me straightforward com ii 

imi ■■!■■ tn&lt; ■.' ""| ■ has mad 

; .:'i worth the time ana 

effort. 

Anyone interested ma) too ma; 
join theprojed b purchasing 
K&gt;i the two shows on Frida) i eb 6 
and Saturday, I eb 7 in the Studio 
Hieatreof Ketttei Hall at K p m 

] in. Box Offli a opens for the | 




i I Foi other admission 





Get On 
The Bus! 



8" 1 annual IPFW Higher Education Day at the Statehouse 

All IPFW Students, Faculty, and Alumni invited 

Monday, February 23 

7:45 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 

FREE motorcoach transportation from IPFW to Indianapolis 

FREE how-to-work with your legislators lesson 

FREE lunch with legislators at the Westin Hotel in Indianapolis 

FREE self-guided tour of the Indiana State House 

FREE opportunity to see our legislature in session 

FREE one-on-one meetings with legislators 

FREE photo opportunities with legislators 

Check with your professors. 

Many are giving extra credit for your attendance 

at this very important IPFW event. 



Sign up in Kettler 142 
or email: alumni@ipfw.edu 



03£MieO 



wit/i T^uztWMafem 




today's topic: all hail 'the office' 



For the past six years, "Seinfeld" has 
worn the crown as the best television show 
ever. Largely regarded as the "show about 
nothing," to me "Seinfeld" was more than 
that, it was "show about everything." I loved 
its ability to find the humor in the details in 
life, rather than dwell on elaborate and drawn 
out "situations" that, the sitcoms of today so 
heavily depend on. When the final episode of 
Seinfeld" aired Thursday, May 12th, 1996, 1 
swore that it would alwavs be the king. And 
that promise has proven to be true ..until 

"Seinfeld" has been dethroned, and the 
culprit responsible for its demise is a little 
known show originally aired on the BBC 
called "The Office." I know what your think- 
ing, "How can a show from overseas bump 
the ultimate in "Must See TV" from the top 
spot?" And believe me, after being so close to 
bumping Jerry and Co during my previous 
phases through "Cheers" and "King of the 
Hill," I am iust as taken aback as you that 
show from the land of tea. fish and chips, and 
bad teeth. Prior to "The Office," the extent of 
my British television exposure has been the 
late night shows on PBS, which I have always 
labeled as "pompous crap." And if was those 
shows I was thinking about when I read two 
reviews raving about "The Office." Perhaps 
its my inability to save money, or love of 
ordering things over the internet, but all if 
took was those two reviews for me to order 
the first "series" (british tor "season") on DVD 
from Amazon. When I got that brown box 
three days later, I didn't know what to expect. 
Mv prayers were more than answered. 

■"The Office" is unlike any show, any 
movie, any form of entertainment I have ever 
seen. Taking place in the office of Wemham 
and Hogg, a paper merchant in Slough, 
England, the show plays like a documentary 
following the drab lives of the employees. 
The "documentary crew" focuses on the boss, 
David Brent, played to perfection by co-cre- 
ator/ writer/director/quasi-god Ricky 
Gervais. The beauty is, Brent uses the one-on- 
one camera time (the "talking head" confes- 
sion scenes in documentaries that allow a 
i speak their mind) to offer his 



entire column on it's own to under- 
stand them. 

Whereas American comedy relies on the 
audience laughing "with" the main character 
for being intentionally funny, the 



department that "Ihe Office" thrives. On 
"Friends," we laugh with (.handler when he 
k to Ross. But on "The 
laugh at David Brent because of 



Office' 

the painstakingly long ■ 



eth Keenan for 



: of battle and 

tupid that you 



British hu 
chars 



It i 



" the i 



example, the ex-tei 
Caret h 13 so clueless a: 
that he doesn't think " 
jnilil.it \ he. ,iii-i' of 111 
look over at him in I 
think, "tioh...look at 

can't help but laugh. 
he's way off base. I lb 



but it he do,- go in there [pointing to her 
crotch], make sure he wears a condom. It's 
kind of .i rule " How do you respond to that? 

It'sdifficull to pinpoint the appeal of the 
show in print, because it is so complex. The 
biggest laughs cannot be replicated by me 
merev typing it, because that's the key to 'The 
Office/there is no punchline. 

What makes "The Office" so kick ass is 
the fact that it is over. Yeah, that's right, my 
new favorite show is retired. But that's what 
amazing, it was on the air for two series, it 
dominated, and then took its bow. Gervais 
said he ended it early before the show could 
suck. Good move. The two series (and two 
Christmas specials) will go down in the histo- 
ry of television for their (lawlessness. With all 
of the greats, there is always the question of 
when they started their descent. Even my 
heralded "Seinfeld was questioned after co- 
creator Larry David left the shim in Season 6. 
Thankfully, "The Office" will never face this 
credibility. 

Like any good show that originally i' 

chn 

Americanized version of my show will hit the 
TV screen next fall. Why anyone would think 
they could take the Golden Globe-winning 
treasure of "The Office" and repeat it in 
America is daft. But of course, in hopes of the 
quick buck, the powers that be will pump the 
show for all its worth. My advice to you is, 
when those ads start saturating NBC next fall, 
skip the shith version that will no doubt miss 
the point, buy the DVD, and watch the real 
thing I don't know about you, but I don't do 
sloppy seconds. 



Page 8 The Communicator 



Features 



February 4, 2004 



&amp;UZZIE 

Communicator 




Accreditation visit taking place 



flu 1 National I eigne for Nursing 
Accrediting Commission, Inc. (NLNAC) 
will visit ll'FW's nursing department Feb. 
3 to 5. 

Tlu' public is uniiL'd to submit comments 
regarding tlir department I'v attending 
open sessions during tin- visit or contacting 

Ni MAC directly at the following address: 
National League for Nursing Accrediting 

Commission Int 61 Broadway, 33rd Hoor 

New York, NY 100116, or by phone at 1-800- 




S -.Mm is will he held tni various publics to 
discuss the department Feb. 4 in Neff Hall, 
Room 140. 

Nursing service representatives and 
graduates ol the IPFW nursing department 
are invited from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
and the public is invited from 4:30 to 5 
p.m. 

For more information or to submit com- 
ments, you may also contact Carol 
Slcrnhergcr, chair and professor of nursing. 



4&amp; 5 Night Packages 

BEACHFRONT HOTEUhR,TA„»T 

6 HEALS AND 3 NIGHTS ALL-lNaUSIVE CLUB ACCESS. 



Don't forget to 

Recycle this 

newspaper. 

We appreciate 

Your support. 



Advertise with us: 481-6583 
or email stupaper@ipfw.edu 



Have you ever thought about going RED? 
We want YOU! 

Milinar Hair. Skin &amp; Nails wants to help 
you fulfill your Dream! 



Model call: 



Tuesday 
February 1 
1-6 pm 



Milinar I I.S.N. 

6016 Brandy Chase Cove 

Fort 'Wayne, IN 4681 5 

260.486.4952 

We're just off of Maplecrest Rd. &amp; State 
Street near the Blu Tomato Restaurant 

We will add either mini-highlights, chunk; lights or a 
monochrome r«d color to your hair for only SI5.00M 
Wc want to help you maintain your new red color tool Call t. 
make an appointment for our model call or tor more informal 



Get on the Bus for 
IPFW Statehouse trip 



Wanting to support the 

university in a way beyond 

a cheer at a sports game or a 

donation to a artistic fund? 

Get on the bus for the 8th 

ial IPFW Highe 



I tli, 



Day 



the 



Statehe 
Indianapolis. 

Open to IPFW students, 
faculty, and alumni, 
Monday, Feb. 23 will be 
spent in Indianapolis at the 
Westin Hotel lunching with 
our state legislators and at 
the statehouse discussing 
IPFW issues. 

Each year, IPFW sends 
over 100 students, alumni 
and faculty to Indianapolis 
to discuss funding needs 



with the state. Statehouse 
Day is completely free and 
includes deluxe motorcoach 
to Indy and back to campus, 
free how-to-talk to your leg- 
islator lessons on the bus, 
free lunch at the Westin 
Hotel with your fellow stu- 
dents and legislators, free 
self-guided tour of the state- 
house, and free photo 
opportunities with your leg- 
islators. 

Buses leave from the 
Kettler Hall semi-circle 
drive at 7:45 a.m. on 
Monday, Feb. 23 and return 
at approximately 6:00 p.m. 

Many professors are mak- 
ing this a class activity or 
providing extra credit. You 



must pre-register in order to 
guarantee your bus seat by 
stopping in Kettler 142 or 






address, and phone number 
In .ilunini^'ipfw.edu. 

The day is sponsored by 
the IPFW Alumni 

Association and is under- 
written by IPFW Students 
Government, Department of 
Public and Environmental 
Affairs, School of Health 
Sciences, Hoosiers for 
Higher Education and 
Purdue's Legislative 

Awareness Network. 

(Information courtesy of 
IPFW Alumni Relations 
Office) 



Primaries to be discussed 



The Political Science Club, American 
Democracy Project, and the Department of 
Political Science at IPFW will host a 
Fireside Chat Thursday, Feb. 5, in the Walb 
Student Union fireside lounge from noon 
to 1:15 p.m. regarding the primaries. 

Specifically, talk will center on what hap- 
pened in the Tuesday primaries Teh. 3 and 
what it means in context with the New 
I lampshirc and Iowa primaries. The dis- 



cussion will a No include a brief history of 
the primary system in the United States. 

Political Science Professor Michael Wolf 
will lead the discussion. The New York 
limes will be used as a source of informa- 
tion. 

For additional information, e-mail Sarah 
Wimer at mhsi liemic&lt;7 ! aol com or call the 
political science office at 260-481-6686. 



Insurance for student travel 



MI-VENS POINT, Wis.--lCOLLK.IAT!- 
I'RISSWIREI-Today's students get around. 
from Spring Break in Cancun to a semester 
abroad in Italy, youthful traveler-; slake their 
thirst for first-hand knowledge in far-flung 
places around the globe. Travel Guard(R) 
International, a pioneer in student travel 
insurance protection, has responded to stu- 
dents' unique travel insurance needs by 
expanding its portfolio of student travel 
insurance plans (www.studenttravel- 
guard.com). 

Travel Guard now provides a comprehen- 
sive suite of products that, in effect, leaves 
no student traveler behind in the all-impor- 
tant area of travel insurance protection 
Student travelers can cover themselves from 
the gamut of travel pitfalls, from a hotel 
room theft of money and passport to a 
ma|ur injury or illness while overseas. 

Student Travel Guard plans are available 
to U.S. and international students for quick 
trips - from Spring Break getaways to ski 
trips - or for longer trips thai might include 
a semester abroad or backpacking around 
Europe for a year after graduation. 

The expanded portfolio ol Student Travel 
Guard plans includes: Quick Break — ideal 
tor Spring Break getaways, ski trips and 
other short trips, this plan is for travelers 
under 29 years old taking trips with a total 
cost of less than 52,000. 

International Travel and International 
Travel Plus - International Travel provides 
up to $1 million in major medical coverage 
tor trips up to six months, and lnternalion.il 
Travel Plus covers trips from six months to 
one year - just right for students studying 
abroad for a semester. 

n Abroad - This annually-renewable 



age is available to U.S. citizens c 
well as non-U S. citizens worldwide. Citizen 
Abroad is ideal tor a student or recent grad- 
uate working overseas in an international 
internship lor longer than a year. 
Smart Flier -- lor students looking to cover 
s the 
&gt;Ians 

mu-t be changed m cancelled tor such cov- 
ered reasons as an illness or injury to the 
traveler or a familv member severe weath- 
er, and terrorism, 

Protect- for- Less — Comprehensive c6ver- 
age for the budget-conscious traveler, pro- 
viding secondary (excess) coverage for trip 
cancellation or interruption, lost or stolen 
baggage and travel documents, and medical 
expense and emergence medical transporta- 

More than just a source of travel insur- 
ance, the Student Travel Guard web site also 
serves as a one-stop-shop for the savvy stu- 
dent traveler's preparations, with links to 
the U.S. Stale Department's Student Travel 
Tips site, a currency converter, ATM and 
hostel locators, weather information and the 
Center for Disease Control's Travelers' 
Health Information site. 

For more information about Student 
Travel Guard's complete line of travel insur- 
ance and assistance products, travelers can 
visit www.studenttravelguard.com, call 
Travel Guard's World Service Center at 1- 
800-826-4117 or see their travel agent. 



ledical and term life ii 



Wanted: 

Professional photographer hiring 
female models. Fine art, figure photog- 
raphy. Must be over 18. Contact Jirr 
485-1618 



flexible Hours to fit Your Class Schedule! 



I^UNrTED ART and EDUCATION*, 



LOOKMC FOR f MfUCf Tf C WOWOTRS 



Join our Warehouse Team &amp; Work In A friendly Environment 
m Work part-time now/full-time in the summer 

■ Duties include order filling (indues some ughuinmtupio son*) 

■ Starting at $7.50 hr. 



Comae, Tom: fbUnitedf^ . . , , . . , '„ 

(260I47SU21 &gt;*, ^ j 441 3 Airport Expressway 

Monday-Friday I An Olid EaUCOaOnVi Fort Wayne, Indiana 



February 4, 2004 



Sports 



The Communicator Page 9 



Time to teach the Coaches 




coaches for at a collegiate 
level? For their role as a 
Coach? I hardly believe that is 

In high school, coaches are 
more than just the guy who 
leads practice and yells at 
games. A coach is someone 
who spends his or her time 
away from the court teaching 



through practice? 

Let's all face facts, we all pay lor these coaches 
Through the big bucks we shell out to 'the university or the 



Butv 






^ a clas 



, But ii 



tthe 



■xplai 



Before I i 



; off ( 



the wrong foot, let : 



(whether 
model in : 
k'le-. Innk 



important thing. Coaching is not easy. 

; not easy to teach impressionable athletes 

ddle or high school or college). A coach is a role 
ne ways for the members of their team. The ath- 
their coach for advice, guidance and leadership. 
It's not easy to be such a big factor. 

It is not ea-.y to e,u through emotions with your team, 
and sometime without them from experience, I know that it 
is not easy to sit on a bench and see all of your work crushed. 
It is not easy to watch these athletes which you guide fall 
short of their goals. 0-11 is never an easy thing either. 

But this column is not about that subject; that will 
come later sometime. This is about coaches at universities, 
much like our own. 

I provide you with a question. What do we pay 



bij; time schools, not at IPFW. 

Can someone explain to me how that seems right? 
Anyone? 1 beg you, let me know. 

I hate dropping names (yeah, right), but let's take for 
example our men's basketball coach Doug Noll. 

Don't get mad now, he is a great guy and he is pure- 
ly used as an example so that I have a name to fit the puzzle. 
But Doug Noll, like every other coach at IPFW and every 
other college in this country, is not a professional coach. If he 
were, he would be in the NBA somewhere. 

This is not professional spurts. This is collegiate .itli- 
letics. IPFW is an institution of higher learning, not the 
Staples Center. So why do we pay our coaches to only coach? 
Why is Doug Noll or Kelly Hartley not in the classroom in 
front of me? It doesn't seem right. 

If Mike Novell at North Side High School must 
spend his days teaching English, then why can't Arnte Ball 
pick up a class or two for when he's not leading his team 



average IPFW student 1 None 

Does everydaj average [ohnny |oe Cool care what 

Noll tells his plaver* dunne, haltlime nl (and pardon mv 
Dluntness) another loss. 

So maybe it is time for coaches to give back to the 
university, Mike Davis at Indiana, Nick Sabin at LSU, Mike 
Fruchey at IPFW It just does not matter The biggest part ot 
being a coach is teaching, leaching on the court is one thing. 
but teaching off the court is what builds di.ir.u ter and allows 
students 1,1 be ready for the leal world. 

I'm sorry, but lay-up drills and batting practice are 

not going to help youi players get fobs in life alter college, 

Their degrees will though. 

High school was for learning and getting a diploma. 
Sure in the afternoons, coaches wen- coaches. But during that 
learning time, coaches were in classrooms, spreading knowl- 

As much as I hate to admit it, even I am at IPFW to 
learn. Some guy coaching a sport does little to help BSSlsl in 
me working towards my communications degree. 

Here is a valuable lesson coaches, You are college 
coaches, and just tike college athletes, you are not profes- 
sionals. Until they turn pro, they have to go to ( lass S&gt; von, 
yeah you should have to as well, And don't be late. 



Communicator Sports Poll 



What would you like to see added to the sports section? 

• Informational Graphics 

• Feature Stories on IPFW Athletes 

•Q&amp;A 

Other: 

What would you like to see leave the sports section? 

• In All Directions 

• Game Stories 

Other: 



submit your answers to sports editor nlck 
West at the Communicator Office in Walb 215 



THE COMMUNICATOR 

muk' ' ' * J,- 




You've Never 
Lived or Worked Like This! 



IPFW Student Housing, the new 

students, is looking for Resident Assistants. 
make IPFW Student Housing a great pi; 
students, resident programming, leadership and 
Qualifications Include: 

• Must be a full-time IPFW student in good standing 
■ Must have and maintain a 2.S GPA or higher 

• Must have strong leadership and communication skills 

• Must attend one RA Informational Session to apply 



through outreach with 
vice support 



For more information and to apply, please stop by the 
housing office located in Kettler Hall. 

2101 East Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

(260)481-4180 

www.IPFWstudenthousing.com 



OPENING AUGUST 2004! 



Think of US as 

funding 

for your 

social life. 



Everything you want to do theses days costs money. We can help. We're looking for 
pan-lime Cooks, Dishwashers, Hosts, Servers, Cashiers/Retail Sales and Night Janitorial 
who are available to work weekend hours. You'll get to work with great people, and be 
able to take advantage of: 

• Up to 3 raises (n your first year • Flexible scheduling 

• Paid vacation • A 401 ( k | savings plan 

• Advancement opportunities 



Stop by: 1410 Shook Drivs 
Off 1-69 a SR 8, Exit 129 
Or call: 260-925-0241 



www.crackerbarrel.com 

We are a Drug Free Workplace. EQE 



Where the best do hotter. 



OPEN YOUR ACCOUNT TODAY! 

IU Credit Union 



• Full-service on-campus branch and 
campus ATM 

• FLASH debit cards 

• Web Home Teller Internet banking — 
Print a history, check balances, transfer 
funds and more 24/7 

• vnvw.iucu.ors — Find current rates, 
access our Web Mortgage Center or get 
information on products, services and 
upcoming events, all from our Web site 

Teller/Member Services! 

Kettler Hall #198F 

9101 E Coliseum Blvd. 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

(960)481-6973 

loan/Administrative 
Walb Student Union #195 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 
(960) 481-6963 




Page 10 The Communicator 



Sports 



February 4, 2004 



Pan Amed: Mastodons defeated by UTPA 



Gear-Ids' three-pointer 
rattles out at buzzer 



By Scott M. Lawson 
The Communicator 

They persisted, but didn't perse- 
vere. They struggled to right 
themselves, but were unable to 
overcome their opponent. 

The IPFW women's basketball 
team fell 75-72 to the Lady Broncfl 
of the University of Texas - Pan 
American Saturday at Gates 

After IPFW was down by as 
many as 11, and then up by as 
many as ten, UTPA was able to 
win the game with about 25 sec- 

Texas Pan Am 75 
IPFW 72 

onds remaining in the contest. 

UTPA took control of the contest 
in the first half of the first half, 
owning a 25-15 lead with 8:11 
remaining in the period. 

From that point on, IPFW went 
on a 13-2 run for the next four min- 
utes and look the lead with points 
coming from junior center Verea 
Bibbs, freshman Leisha Walker . 

Tlie Lady Mastodons look the 
lead for the first time with a lay up 
from freshman Ashley Johnson. 



Snphuiimre Geneva Murdock 
added a trey and deuce nearing 
the end oi the half to expand the 
IPFW lead - while senior star Amy 
Gearlds scored her first points of 
the game with .01 on the 
game clock. 

IPFW attempted to con- 
tinue the momentum into 
the second hall, mounting 
as much as a 56-45 lead at 
the I 3 minute mark. 

Then il was UTPA's turn 



for a run, thei 



*inga 



12. 

On an individual level, IPFW 

senior Amy Gearlds is edgi ng . Ii &gt;s- 
er and closer every game to a pini- 
cal of 1,500 points for her career. 
With her current 



The IPFW 
Women hosts 
Texas A&amp;M 
Corpus Christi 
Wednesday, 
Feb. 4 at 7 p.m. 
at Gates Center 









5 in individual 
career record for 
points and now 
owns the record as 
No. 1 in 3-point 
baskets for the 
IPFW squad. 

The Lady Dons 



lead chance as Ihey went 

on a 15-2 sprint up the scoreboard, will host Texas A&amp;M Corpi 

rhej retook the lead with 9:15 Christi at the Gates Center on 

remaining with a 60-58 lead. Wednesday, Feb. 4. On Friday, Feb. 

Geralds scored a 3 to tie it at 67 7, they'll host Illinois-Chicago at 7 

with 2:24 remaining, but the Lady p.m. 

Drones were able to move forward After the Feb. 7 game, the Lady 

from that spot in an effort to finish Mastodons go on the road for four 

off the Mastodons. contests taking place in Wisconsin 

IPFW remained in striking dis- and Texas, including a rematch 

tance in the last two minutes, but with Wisconsin-Green Bay and 

was unable to retake the lead. A UTPA on Feb. 19. 

last second shot for a tie from Their final home match is slated 

Gearlds bounced off the rim. for Feb. 23 when the team faces the 

Bibbs lead IPFW with 17 points Wright State Lady Raiders at 7 

and 11 rebounds. Si'nior Maggie p.m. 

IPFW's last game of the season 

ill take place in Valparaiso when 

the squad faces the Lady 

uad Crusaders on Feb. 28 at 2 p.m. in 

season, while Valparaiso. 

a record of 9- 




Wilh the loss, the IPFW 



After pulling down one of her four rebounds, Maggie 
Bruerung advances the ball up the court in Saturday's loss to 
Texas Pan American. She scored 12 points in the loss. 



Losing woes continue for Simon &amp; Co. 



■ * - » » 






David 
Simon 
| has 
scored 54 
points 
and 

grabbed 
29 

rebounds 
in IPFW's 
last two 

I however; 
I the 'Dons 



I either 
I contest 



By Nick West 

The Communicator 

The IPFW men's basketball 
team dropped to 3-17 with two 
road losses last week. 

Last Saturday, Jan. 1 31, 
Youngstown State got double fig- 
ures from four players, on the way 

Basketball 71 " 61 



Mastodons at the BVeglv Center. 

The Penguins (7-12) 
jumped out to an early double- 
digit lead, and the Mastodons, who 
have been playing without 60°:. of 
their scoring offense, couldn't close 
the gap. 

Junior David Simon had a 
monster game with 27 points and 
17 rebounds. 



Senior forward Keion points from freshman guard Beau 
Henderson was the only other Bauer. Simon and Bauer were the 
Don in double figures with thir- only two 'Dons to hit in double-fig- 



Adam Baumann and Mike 
Woodard led YSU with 11 points 

IPFW outrebounded the 
Penguins 4.1-34 and shot at a high- 
er percentage (44.1 - 43.1) 

On Jan. 28, Simon scored 
27 points and pulled down 12 
rebounds, but the Mastodons went 
ice cold early in the second half, 
losing to the University of Texas- 
Pan American 81-60, at the UTPA 
Fieldhouse. 

The Broncs erased a four- 
point IPFW lead, going on a 25-0 
run over the final 3:47 of the first 
half, to the 15:01 mark of the sec- 
ond half to put the game out of 

The Mastodons got eleven 



UTPA (6-13) had four play- 
ers hit for double-figures, with 
Andrius Sakalys leading the way 
with 17. 

The 'Dons are entering the 
stretch run of their season. They 
have seven games left, three of 
them at the Memorial Coliseum. 

The men have a chance to 
exact some revenge on Texas Pan 
Am, as the Broncos travel to Fort 
Wayne this Saturday to play IPFW 
at 1 p.m. at the Coliseum. 

First, however; IPFW must 
finish the final game of its road trip 
Feb. 4, traveling to Indianapolis to 
take on Butler at 7:30pm. 



VolleyDons knock off 
defending MIVA champs 



'Dons led by 

Dreisbach and 

Zbyszewski's 44 kills 

By IPFW News Services 



The IPFW men's volleyball 
n notched its first MIVA win on 
28, knocking off defending 



Si-rdar Suka also ivgisteifd doul 
digit kills in the middle with ten 

Junior setter Denr 
Santiago recored 56 assist. 

IPFW outhit Lewis .314 
231 in the match. 

With the loss, Lewis falls 
i conference play. 



of 17-35. 3(1 
25, 29-31 

and 31-29. 



I "i\ 



The Mastodons, who have 
tome top 15 votes in the 
national poll, should final- 



thls 



IPFW adds r 

IPFW head men's volley- 
ball coach Arnie Ball has 
announced the addition of Rhyen 
Staley to the men's volleyball 
coaching staff. 

Staley, from Manhatten, 
Illinois, js ,i former member ol the 
IPFW men's volleyball team. In 
his three year career with the 
Mastodons. Sl.ilev plaved a num- 
ber of positions including, libero. 
setter, defensive specialist, and 



right outside hitter Matt outside hi 

Zbyszewski, the Dons shook off Staley will replace Ryan 

Saturday night's loss to Penn State Perrotte on the 'Dons bench. "We 

in fine fashion. Zbyszewski regis- .ire glad to have the opportunity to 
tered his first double-double of the work with Rhyen Staley", corn- 
season with 26 kills and 11 digs He mented Coach Ball. "He will be a 
also assisted on six blocks in the strong contributor to the program, 



great night on the left side, putting system P 



Two 


track 


records 


fall 


over 


wee 


kend 








*£i 


**■ aJ 






: 


1 ¥^» 
1 *^ 


lf£i&lt;h 




■» 




I 











■Sarkn 

Two IPFW women's track obliterated the previous record of was just over two seconds better 

and field records fell this past 19:18.57 set bv Lauren Simpson in than the mark of 10:51.67 she set 

weekend at the Bowling Green 2003. last year. 

State University Quad. Simpson, not to be out- The women's indoor 

Freshman Ashley Ritchey done, broke her own mark in the track team returns to Bowling 

smashed the mark in the 5,000 women's 3000 meters. Simpson Green this Friday, Feb. 6, to com- 

meters. Ritchey's time of 18:55.41, posted a time of 10:49.60. That pete in another quad at 5 p.m. 



