Message from the Chancellor • 



May 13, 2009 




May 13, 2009 



politics &amp; money 



pg.2 




i^Cuaent Inyesting 101 

By Jessie Ruckman 

jessie.ruckman^pfwcommunicatororg 

Summer Browsing 

Financial Resources Under the Sun 



Thank goodness it's summertime. 
No more pencils, no more books, no 
more leacher's dirty looks! Now, I have 
an assignment foryou: bone up on your 
financia] education while you actually 
have time to think, plan and organize. 
Organizing your financial future and 
making a plan is way more essential 
than reading the TVbiJight series for the 
fifth time. Seriously. 

Because I believe that your financial 
future is extremely important, I have 
compiled a summer reading list of 
books, \Vebsites and blogs for you and 
your money. Think of me as the guard- 
ian angel of your financial security. 

How to Get Out of Debt, Stay Out 
of Debt, and Live Prosperously 
by Jerrold Mundis 

Mundis gives essential and basic 
advice that 



The Wealthy Barber 
by David Chilton 






advice that this book gives is solid and 
backed by clear examples. It's a novel 
backed by good advice - who knew?! 



behind why people spend the way they 
do. If you have no debt, read it anyway 
- it's a preventative measure for smart 
people who care about their finances. 
■Rvo key pieces of advice from the au- 
thor: you cannot create results without 
taking action, and though debt repay- 
ment can seem daunting at the start, it 
will not take forever. 

I WJll Teach You to be Rich 
by Ramit Sethi 

Sethi's focus is on this generation's 
financial 



Sethi is a blogger who compiled some 
of his best advice and condensed it into 
a six-week program aimed at revamp- 
ing the way we think about our money. 
According to one reviewer. "Bamil's 
book is great, but it's not for everyone. 
First of all, it's targeted almost exclu- 
sively at young adults. If you're under 
25 and single, and if you make a decent 
li\dng, this book is perfect. But if you're 
45 and married with two children, and 
if you struggle to make ends meet, this 
book is less useful." 



Web Sites 



getrichslowly.org features ar- 
ticles and advice such as financial 
blogs, how to balance your person- 
al budget and how to begin invest- 
ing in your future by choosing IRAs 
and how to go about it. This web- 
site is a virtual mess hall of good 
information. And the best nexvs: 
nobody is trying to sell you any- 
thing. This is a good site to simply 
bookmark on your computer and 
revisit regularly. 



Investopedia.com 



Even though this site is filled 
with obnoxious advertisements, 
there is good information here, 
beginning with the basics. The 
site lists current CD rates and hot 
stocks, but don't take their words 
as having epic proportions - take 
the information as simple tips. 

If you're bored writh what I'm say- 
ing, but want to do more reading 
and/or research later, check out 

www.financetrends.bfogspot.com 

David Sh- 
vartsman 
gives a 
fairly com- 
prehensive 
list of good 
websites, 
and is sort 
of a search 
engine for finance. Flip through 
the list provided and detailed on 
the site and glance at each site 
imlil you find one that suits your 
wants or needs. And my best ad- 
vice: take baby steps because the 
world doesn't come to you in one 
big chunk- it comes through prag- 
matic, stow, lifelong determina- 
tion. 



IPSGA Student Body President 

Inaugural Address 

If you could go anywhere you wanted, 
v^ere would you go? 

The student gavemment of IPFW makes 
this a non-rhetorical question. Last year 
we put aside a huge chunk of money 
and dubbed it the Travel Fund. IPFW 
students who can convince Student 
Senate that their trip is worthy and 
meetsthegeneralcriteriaarehanded 
a check and sent out anywhere they 
want in the world. 

This says a lot about Student 
Government. We are accessible, 
and we are here to give you 
whaf you want Last year, 
we sent one student to live 
with French monks for a 
month, one to Australia, 
another to the opening of 
Nefertiti's tomb and several 
to various conferences in 
Indianapolis and other nearby 
cities. Basically, Student 
Government will send you as 
far as you want to go. 

And yes, now we're not just 
beingliteral.StudentGovemment 
has a dynamic team this year that 
is ready to shake stuff up, to boldly 
go where we should have gone 
long before and we want you to 
point us in the right direction. 
We're opinionated people, and 
if nobody has anything to say 
then we'll just go ahead and 
do what seems best to us. Vou 
may, or may not, like that- so 
why leave it up to chance? 
Speak up, get involved. 

TheStudentGovernment 
office resides on the second 
floor of Walb Union across 
from the computer labs. Drop 
in sometime, let us know about 
your revolutionary new idea 
to increase parldng space, tell 
us what would make campus events 
so much cooler. We're here to listen , 
and to take action. You can also give us 
recommendations directly as they occur 
to you at http://www.ipfw.edu/5tugov. 

Student Government is your 
representative and we have the resources 
to at least make a valiant effort at bringing 
what you want to IPFW. So I ask you again, 
and this time in a much broader sense: If you 
could go anywhere you wanted, where would 
you go? 



Amanda lUlorningstar Marks 
Student Body President 



ATTENTION SENIORS 



ENGRAVE YOtJB NAME AND C£.^SS YEAR ON TH£ 

ALUMNI TiHTnK WAT.K 



ONLVS2S 




,o^ Oifll "o 



Ofllce nf Dgrglopment 

KeUla- Hall Room 140 

CallZ6(M81-57Z7a-ErrmlaI klinkgii@ip[»eilu 

P^ bj credit card iKurcl J aL 

Wlra7/More-ipfi»edVdCTelppgcrma'dgi gi&amp;ailiiil 



w Suggest to yoof^ 



Taking on Campus Development 




WHERE TO FIND THIS NEWSPAPER: Every building on campus has at 
least one rack reserved for The Communicator. Likewise, back issues are 
located in the Walb Student Union (9), room 215, while the last two vol- 
umes of this publication are available in the Walter Helmke Library (7). 



May 13. 2009 perspEcti've 



pg.3 



10 semesters later. 1 have come to 
call [PFW home, realizing that no mai- 
ler where you go, your campus is as big 
as you make il. Vour dot on the map is 
as prevalent as you choose to see it. 

I have dedicated three years to this 
publication. Three of those years were 
spent finding myself. Six of those se- 
mesters were committed to developing 
a brand. Almost 90 of those issues were 
devoted to an emerging university with 
t^vo identities and multiple personali- 
ties. 

While mainlaing academic priority, 
somewhere along the line you find your 
niche, mine being the responsiblities 
that come with producing this newspa- 
per - primarily and more recently, con- 
sidering our audience. 

Indiana University-Purdue Univer- 
sity Fort Wayne is a diverse campus. 
Demographically, if we split the cam- 
pus into part-lime and full-time stu- 
dents, the dynamics have evolved dra- 
matically over the last two decades. 

In a conversadon with the Chancel- 
lor, he noted that when he first came 
to IPFW 15 years ago. the campus con- 
sisted of 30 percent full-time students. 
Today, 70 percent of students are full- 
time. 



Since apartment style living has 
been implemented, student life on 
campus has become more vivacious. 
While involvement remains a con- 
cern, the universit&gt;' recognizes a need 
to centralize campus activity, thus the 
Student Services &amp; Library Complex. 

We at The Communicator have ded- 
icated a strong portion of this issue to 
the expansions IPFW is making. 

Meanwhile, the landscape of infor- 
mation has morphed. Newspapers no 
longer hold the same reverence. The 
Internet has transformed accessibil- 
ity and information as a whole has lost 
credibihty. How do you know that this 
paper is worth subscribing to? 

As we try to maintain ground in 
this industry, we hope you can see The 
Communicator as a viable source for 
community information. As 1 leave my 
post, 1 take comfort knowing that this 
publication is heading in a direction 
that reflects the growth and potential 
of this university. 



C-P 



(^""^ Said EL-Dajani 

Editor-in-Chief 



Communicator offers many 
opportunities as it turns 40 

if 

EVOLUTION: 
The face of the 
publication 
has changed 
so much from 
the fall of 1972 
(top) to today. 
Continued 
creativity will 
allow for many 
more changes 
past the 40th 
anniversary. 



This fell. The Communicator will be celebrating 
its 40th binhdayivith a partially new group of editors 
and IS'one of the best places to get involved on this 
campus. 

Editor-in-Chief elect Aaron Greene and his staff 
are the capable hands that Said EL-Dajani and myself 
leave the paper in. 

Tlie paper has weathered plenty of storms since it's 
inception in 1969 and come out much cleaner on the 
other side. Whether it was the Muhammed cartoon 
controversy in 20DG where the paper was one of only 
14 in die United Slates to print die religion-offensive 
images or anti-war protests and propaganda in the 
1970's, The Communicator has acted as a student 
voice, oudet and Intel for some of the most touchy 
and/or cutting edge stories over these past 39 years. 

The people who have led The Communicator 
forward have all been influential in their own right. 
Former longtime IPFW Alumni Director lennifer Bosk 
was on the original staff. She's been joined over the 
years by people from congressman Mark Souder to 
current Vice Chancellor of Enrollment Affairs Mark 
FrankcThc influence ofthese people along with other 
editors of The Communicator is unparalleled. It was 
even this paper that began the drive to give IPFW its 
mascot in the spring of 1970. In 2005, the sports staff 
broke news of the hiring of Dane Fife as the youngest 
NCAA Division I men's basketball coach- a story that 
would be national news in USA Today and on ESPN, 
among other oudets. 

Even moreso than the paper's rich editor and viriter 
history are the faces that have adorned the front page 
with their visits to the IPFW campus. From John Kerry 
and Bill Russell (1972) to Dick Vitale (2004) and lesse 
Jackson (2005). 

Th o se th in gs th e m selves make Th e Co m mun i cato r, 
as the voice of the student body, a very readable paper. 
But also, they offer great opponunities to interview 
and vtrrite about current people of importance and 
witness greamess in the making with current IPFW 
students, ambassadors and athletes \vho will go on 
to be the leaders of tomorrow in this community and 
worldwide. 

In my tenure with IPFW, I have been able to 
meet and interview already well-known people like 
Jackson, Archbishop Desmond TUtu, Olympian Lloy 
Ball and even Dennis Hasldns (or Mr. Belding of Saved 
by the Bell fame). I have also been here to cover the 
e.\pIoits of students who have since left their IPFW 




capacity for bigger exploits, included in that list are 
professional European basketball star David Simon 
and former student body president Jusdn Busch, who 
went on to be a Confidential Assistant appointed by 
the President of the United States during die George 
W. Bush administration. 

And if name-dropping doesn't catch you, take 
note that this is a great paper to be creative at. It's 
not as restrictive and stuffy as other college papers 
in this state, but at the same time offers the chance 
to learn and grow as a journalist - be it as a writer, 
photographer, designer, editor or all four. 

The bottom line is that The Communicator offers 
huge chances that you won't get anywhere else on 
campus, not to undermine any other organization for 
students. The best part: you don't have to choose one 
group at IPFW, and experience with the newspaper 
will open your eyes to the plethora of amazing things 
that you can do at IPFW. 

It truly is a once in a lifetime opportimity to be part 
of a paper like The Communicator, especially when 
the publication celebrates a huge milestone this fall. 



Dan Vance 
Managing Editor 



Publication /las more 
room for growti) in 
coming fall semester 



A new year for The Communicator is around 
the corner and editors, writers and photogra- 
phers are yet to be determined. Although we are 
watching two extraordinary staff members go, we 
are also opening our doors to new students with 
fresh ideas. As the position of Editor-in-Chief has 
been handed down to me and Managing Editor to 
Kelly McLendon, it will now be our decision to hll 
each of diose staff positions and mold those who 
we feel qualify into what we envision ihe staff to 
be for the folloiving year. 

As the Graphic Designer for the past three se- 
mesters, I have spent a comfortable amount of 
sleepless nights in the office with former Editor- 
in-Chief Said EL-Dajani, making last minute deci- 
sion (some good; some not so good) and tweaking 
front cover illustrations to most effectively grab 
the attention of our readers. Our combined goal 
was to make the paper the best it could be and it 
has been dial determination that lead me to ap- 
ply for Edilor-ln-Chief for the upcoming year. 

This following school year, I want to introduce 
a new look to The Communicator as well as a new 
voice. As the world of information is turning to 
the web, we must also adapt to the way news is 
presented. With a more modem looking website 
and a fresher brand, I feel that our publication vrill 
communicate on a clearer level to the next year 
of students and to the students already spending 
their college career at IPFW. 

Wilh eight awards under our belt ffom the In- 
diana Collegiate Press Association (ICPA) Confer- 
ence of spring 2009. staff with more experience 
and better equipment, I have confidence that 
there is even more room for The Communicator 



^JiJ^Z 



Greene 
in-Chief Elea 



May 13, 2009 



arts &amp; entertainment 



VISUAL COiMiiMiUNie ATIOM 

Art department enhances student experience 





ARDBOARD 
CATWALK 



Design students 

conclude spring 

semester strutting 

final projects 

By Kim Coffey 

kirn , CO HeyQ i p fwt m m u ni cato ro rg 



On May 6, Professor Sayaka Ganz and her class made their 
way oul of the classroom and into the main gallery of the VCD 
building. Each studenl wore a unique project they had been con- 
slrucdng for about three weeks. Wliile faint music played in the 
background, pairs strutted their stuff on a makeshift catwalk to 
show off their headdresses made completely out of cardboard. 

The final project for Professor Ganz's Design Fundamentals 
II class was a change of pace from the typical cardboard assign- 
ment given to design students. The headdress was required to 
not only retain good design, but to be custom fit for each student 
in a way that it could be put on and taken off. While previous 
classes made functional and collapsible furniture. Ganz's stu- 
dents ended up with costume-like pieces ranging from wood- 
land nymphs to gladiators. 

"One of ihe goals of the assignment was to express an inner 
self," sophomore Frank Hernandez III said. "So you ended up 
with a ivide variety of things — one girl even presented herself as 
a brick wall." 

The class session staned out as a normal critique, with the 
exception of Ganz taking pictures of the students like models. 
Afterwards, everyone went out to the lobby and walked in their 
headdresses towards Ganz as she filmed the show. 

"There had been a few flyers put around the art building en- 
couraging people to come watch it," freshman Kari Larsen said. 
"The office staff came out to sec us, and I think a few students 
may have been there." The fashion show was a fun way to end a 
semester of time-consuming projects, which included workiRg - 
with clay and making art out of 1,000 small objects. 

"I definitely liked the headdress idea," Hernandez said. "It 
was cool because ! felt like I was dressing up for Halloween. 
Maybe I'll even use my piece for my next costume. You never 
know." 



By HanaAI-Hawash - OpEd 



With the new bridge, 
student housing, the new 
"Campuslink" Bus Service 
and many other renova- 
iLons and expansions, the 
depanment of Visual and 
Performing Arts has de- 
cided to add to what seems 
to be IPFWs step by step re- ^^^^^^^^= 
modeling. 

Starting this summer, the Department of 
Visual and Performing Arts IVPA) will be re- 
configuring their labs and studios to provide 
for an environment that is more suited for 
the career driven student. The school want- 
ed to make sure that students were using the 
most advanced technology available. The 
classrooms ivill be equivalent to what stu- 
dents will be encountering when they enter 
the design workforce. 

"I We're creating a) less utilitarian at- 
mosphere, ..one more reflective of the at- 
mosphere widiin the design industry," VPA 
Marketing and Public Relations Specialist 
Susan Domer said. 

The new Visual Communication and De- 
sign (VCD) labs are incredibly sleek and be- 
ing designed to make students more com- 
fortable. Each of the three labs will contain 
a MacPro, the God of all Macs, along with 
a new wide-format LCD HD projector and 
wall mounted speakers. Dual-boot, meaning 
the computers can be run as Macintosh or 
Windows, ivill also be a part of the new sys- 
tem. Printersfor black and white, along with 
color primers will also be available for art 
students, and will be paid for just like other 
an supplies. New stili and video cameras will 
also be available for loan. 

One of the most useful commodities is 
the somewhere around 5500,000 license 
contract that III has purchased with Adobe. 
Not only does the school provide Photoshop, 
Illustrator and Microsoft Word, but the entire 
Creative Suite 4 Design Premium and Pre- 
mier Elements 7.0, two programs that cost 
hundreds of dollars for an extremely low cost 



"One of the most useful 

commoditltes is the 

somewhere around $500,000 

license contract that lU has 

purchased with Adobe." 



of$10-20.Thisisverysignificant, just like the 
change to all Apple computers is. 

With the Macintosh computers and Ado- 
be programs, the VPA is truly looking into the 
future with these new labs. They are hoping 
that the new technology will last through the 
next generation of students, three to four 
years. This, of course, depends on the rate of 
the development of technology. 

"Modern technology changes at a mind- 
bendingly rapid pace," Domer said. "The 
challenge to have the most up-to-date 
equipment, while being prepared for future 
changes is one that IPFW VCD professors 
were happy to tackle, especially with the 
ovenvhelming support of the university." 

The labs and computers both were some- 
what out-of-date and needed some help. The 
department made the request to the Dean, 
and eventually it went to the top through the 
chain of command, so to speak. They saw a 
need and decided to fulfill the departments 
request. 

"The university saw the need and were 
able to help us," John Motz, Continuing Lec- 
turer in Graphic Design said. 

So with the advancements in technology, 
the new programs and computers, along 
with both the relaxed and professional atmo- 
sphere of the new labs, the new VCD tabs for 
this coming fall semester will be the sleekest 
labs that IPFW has seen since the beginning 
of the department. 

"It's an exciting project and the universi- 
ty is tr&gt;ang to make good to provide the best 
technology available," ITS manager, Glenn 
Morgan said. 




May 



arts &amp; entertainment 



ummer Blockbuster 

CLdSTCR 

As the too loud and foul mouthed comedian Dane Cook once said, "Everyone 
gets to be a critic when it comes to movie trailers." Even though Dane Cook acts tike 
he's hyped up on Sugar Daddys and never seems to deliver any good punchlines, we 
agree with him on that slalement. And since ihe hoi months are upon us, it's only 
fitting to share with you some of the upcoming blockbuster films that are hitting 
the big screen this summer The surrounding films are previewed as follows... 

- Pigeonhole Formula (by Said EL-Dajani] 

Word aisocidtion equation based on film di&lt;:hes and pap culture referencing 

- Synopsis (by Katy Anderson) 

■ Character Development (by Dan Vance) 

- Hotness Factor (by Kelly McLendon) 




pg.5 





Away We Go 
June S'R 



The Oftke' ( iipetilrve distuncllonil lamilii slemtnt ) 

• This film is for anyone who is going 
through some sort of existential 
meltdown or has a fear of growing up 
and settling down. 

• As dry as this movie looks, the 
charaners of Jeff Daniels and 
Catherine O'Hara as the cynical and 
hippieish parents are make or break. 
Otherwise, it will be a snooze fest. 

• This movie has John Krasinski in it, 
which may appeal to some viewers; 
however, he is not to be mistaken for 
the character Jim he plays on The 
Office' in this film. Krasinski lacks his 
usual cuteness and ends up looking 
like someone's dad instead. 



The Ugly Truth 

July 24 - R 



'300' ('How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days' ) 



• This is for young adults and for 
anyone who gets a kick out of gender 

stereotyping. 



* I'm sad to see that Kevin Connolly's 
role seems minimal, mostly because I 
don't think that Katherine Heigl and 
Gerard Butler have the range to pull 
this clich^d flick off alone. 



Terminator Salvation 

May22-PG-13 



anion » ctiaoi ' "'"*" •'»™ ' 

■ After Skynet almost destroys all of 
humanity, John Connor is determined 
to save the world from complete 
, annihilation. 

• Establishing Christian Bale as John 
]. Conner Is important, not only as a 
!■ tie into the original Terminators, but 
JLalso to separate him from the Batman 
Ikimage. 

• Sure, Christian Bale looked good 

n Batman, but in Terminator he just i 
Books weak. And he has that false ; 
e agaln-defjniiely not hot. 





Transformers; 
Rise of the Fallen 

June 24 - MPAA Rating Unknown 

sound effects ( Disney Channel humor ) 
prequal ( 7he Fifth Element ) - Bruce Willis 

• This is what happens when it's the 
guy's turn to pick the movie. Anyone 
who enjoyed the first Transformers is 
sure to find this film at least mildly 
entertaining. 

• Not sure I can still buy Shia LeBeouf 
as the geeky school kid anymore. But 
his interaction with the Megan Fox 
and John Turturro chara«ers is still 
undeniable in this sequel. 

• Shia LaBeouf looks like a middle I 

iniiftiifrilifaiiiii'Ti ■■( 



Ever considerEd worfdng for The CommunkatDr? 

ov/s Your 
ance. 

The Communicator has an opening for the following positions starting Fall 2009: 

Editors, Writers and Photographers 



photoqrjphei) and deilgnefi. 



PHJonilnWitiltd In Joining lhljexcell«iicare«-&lt;ic(inlng and rewarding endeavwihould Slop by VftlbUr 

roomJISandfillogtanaopliutionor.KndarHumcio: 

IPSMnc. 



The Hangover 

June 5 - R 



Du de Wfhere's My Car' ( Rated R ) ♦ Milte Ty son 
'Harold &amp; Kumar* + 'Superbad' 



• A bachelor party gone bad flick, this 
movie is a comedy that is targeted at 
guys and those who enjoy bizarre situ- 
ational humor. 

• Comedy Central favorite Ed Helms 
as an older version of Superbad's 
McLovin is a huge spark in a movie 
where four, mostly unknown actors. 
make the story work by sticking to 
their roles in solid fashion. Plus, Mike 
Tyson = magic. 

• This movie features a bunch of ugly 
and sub-par guys and only two who 
artually meet the strict "Hot Factor- 
requirements, 



Food, Inc. 

June 19 -PG 

'Nightmare Before Christmas' + 

The Exorcist' ( food production ) 
'Clobal Warming • Michael Moore 



• This is for those who enjoy 
documentaries, are health freaks, are 
anti-corporation and are convinced the 
government is conspiring to destroy 
the human race. 

• The tomato appears to take a 
dominant role, which surprises me as I 
think butter adds more to the story. 

• Zero 'hot fartor" here - unless 
your idea of true love is a box of Ritz 
Crackers. 



INDIANA TOBACCO QUITLINE 



i-iiooauri-Now 



WE'LL SHOW YOU HOW 



'^Mayl3,2009 COVer StOry pg.e 



Story by Peter Schnellenberger •Illustration by Kol&amp;Christlieb 




During the spring semester of 2009, the area separating Walb Student Union from the North Campus Parking 
Garage was caged off as monstrous machines dug into the earth to create a foundation for the university's 
latest addition. At the same time, the large parking lot next to Gates Sports Center was also caged off. Other campus 
expansions include phase III of Smdent Housing, which will be completed by fall of 2010 and the Ron Venderly Family 
Bridge, which will have a grand opening this fall. ^ continued on Page 7 



May 13. 2009 



campus development pjf 



IPFW expansion to transform 
student experience 



Connecting the Campus 

In an efTorl lo bring the campus community to- 
gether, IPFW began construction on a building that 
will connect Walb Siudeni Union, Helmke Library 
and Gates Sports Center -- three buildings vital to 
IPFW student life. The new building(s) will be called 
The Student Services and Library Complex (SSLC). 

At tlie end of completion, the project will have cost 
$40 million and will blanket approximately 173,000 
square feel (with two stories above and one partial- 
ly below grade). The project will take 30 months to 
complete. Bringing the estimated completion date to 
20II. 

"When the campus first began. Keltler was abso- 
lutely the center of campus," said Chancellor Michael 
Wartell. 'The desire is to make the center of campus 
closer to where the students on campus live and to 
make it closer to the geographic center of campus." 



Impacting the Community 

According to current plans, there will be additions 
built to Helmke Library, Walb Student Union and The 
Gates Sports Center. A large sky bridge will connect 
the two extensions. This wing of the SSLC will be 
called the Collaborative Learning Center (CLC). 

The purpose of the CLC will be to create a "less for- 
mal, more flexible" teaming environment by combin- 
ing multi-purpose classrooms to the already existing 
library, according to Walter Branson, Vice Chancellor 
of Financial Affairs. 

The CLC will have more than just classroom space 
and academically oriented features, h will also in- 
clude a student commons and coffee shop. 

Other additions to the union include a third fast 
food vendor and increase in dining space located in 
the basement of Walb. 

The Follett's bookstore ivill be moved fi-om Ket- 
tler Hall to the area between the union and the CLC. 
In fact it ivill be much larger, by a few thousand feet. 
Due to the increase in size, the bookstore will be able 
to offer more apparel and retail options. 

hi between Walb Student Union and Gate Sports 
Center will be the International Center (IC). This 
building will be an enormous meeting space, twice 
the size of the Walb Ballroom. It will act as a conven- 
tion center that will house different events through- 
out the year. 

"We feel the need to internadonalize the univer- 
sity," Branson said. Branson noted that the interna- 
tional community petitioned the school specifically 
for such a space. 



Accommodating Athletics 




Drawings Courtesy of BSA Life Stnjctures 
&amp; Collaborative Designs 



Athletics: The southwest view of Gates Sports 
Center represents the connection to the Indoor 
Track and Activity Center (ITSC). Total construc- 
tion is planned to be approximately 173,000- 
square feet with the largest dedicated to the 
expansion of athletics resources. 



The largest of the additions ivill be the Indoor 
TYack and Activity Center (ITSC) which, ivill be con- 
nected to Gates Sports Center. This addition will 
house an indoor track, a new weight room, three 
basketball courts, fixed bleachers (seating 1,500) and 
new offices for athletic coaches. 

The new space will be open to the general IPFW 
population. "There will be three or four basketball 
couris open for intramural and pick-up play." Bran- 
son said. 

"With our facilities right now, we are just so crowd- 
ed, lust to be able to spread out and have more space 
and other opportunities for students, for intramurals 
and free play and exercise- that's really going to help," 
said Tommy Bell, Athledc Director. 

The ITSC will also be used as a venue for differ- 
ent university' sponsored events. One such event is 
the IPI^ Science Fair, which is currently held in the 
Gates Center. 



Pros &amp; Cons 

As for the parking situation, the university plans 
lo add 'too new parking spots over the summer, on 
die north side of campus near the new Medical Ed- 
ucation building, Branson noted. 

"It has caused problems with the parking for the 
theater, jvisual artsj, and music students because 
people are using our space for the rest of the cam- 
pus...rm glad they arc making the campus belter for 
the needs of the students. It's just a big pain right 
now," said Bree Bartman, a junior theatre major. 
From a financial standpoint the SSLC is not an- 
other controversial Downtown Development project. 
There was enough money allocated and locked in to 
complete the project before construction began. In 
fact, the current recession and subsequent budget 
cuts had no affect on this project at all, 

Due lo the amount of funding coming from the 
state, students won't feel an additional financial bur- 
den in tuition, said Branson. 

"From my perspective the new complex will be 
money and time very well spent, ,. these new facilities 
will represent the progress and expansion of IPFW, 
This will be a great tool to help bring in more stu- 
dents, more donors, and a greater sense of communi- 
ty among those already associated with the campus," 
said Kody Tinnel, outgoing Student Body President 
and incoming Vice President of Legislation. 

^ Continuing campus development: Pages 




LEADERSHIP STARTS HERE! 

NOW ENROLLING FOR THE FALL SEMESTER. 

CALL TODAY AND ASK ABOUT OUR 4-YEAR. FULL TUITION SCHOLARSHIP! 



'lE^sa^ 



■imKi.c-Li..., i...f "fr ifjF ^^^ - 



May 13, 2009 



campus development pgS 



Connecting the Campus 

FUTURE OF IPFW: The following renderings 
sample current campus projects, including 
two views of the IPFW Student Sen/ices 
and Library Complex, an arial view of 
Phase III of Student Housing and a view 
of the Ron Venderly Family Bridge. 

RIGHT: Phase III of Student Housing is 
expected to be completed by Fall 2010. 
The project is estimated to cost $31.5 
million and will sit southeast df the 
current facility. 

LEFT: Southwest view of the International 
Center (IC) [left], the Collaborative 
Learning Center (CLC) and Walb Student 
Union [center-right]. 

BELOW: Southeast view of the 
Collaborative Learning Center, a section 
of the Student Services and Library 
Complex. 

Drawlngt Courtesy of BSA Life Structures 
a Collabarative Designs 
Bridge rendering courtesy of IPFW 
www. ipfw.edu/news/resources/dDwnloads 



f 





iii 






Welcome to 
has changed in 
sionaries becon 
outline the storj 
has gone before 

Most recent 


^^^^^^^^^^±T+r±~r: 




^ 


across the St. lo 
place, linking u 
Also nearing co 
begin in the fall 




which will add r 




wmrm ^M. 






^^^^^ ■■ Services Compl 


V ' 



soar issue 





Message /m^ Chancel lor 




Welcome to a growing university! When 1 ihink about how much our campus 
has changed in the last 10 years, I'm simply amazed. The dreams and ideas of vi- 
sionaries become a reality on our campus every year. These buildings and spaces 
outline the siory of a decade of expansion, and you are the beneficiaries of aU that 
has gone before. But. my message to you is ... the best is yet to come. 

Most recently, we've seen the construction of the Ron Venderly Family Bridge 
across the St. Joe River. We've all watched as they put the girders and cables into 
place, linking us to The PLEX, the Heffner Soccer Fields and the new Holiday Inn. 
Also nearing completion is the new Medical Education Center, where classes ivill 
begin in the fall. And, ground was recently broken on Phase III of student housing, 
which will add new residence halls with another 450 beds. 

But, perhaps the building you will be most excited about is the new Student 
Services Complex. This project will join Gates Sports Center, Helmke Library, Walb 



Student Union and a parking garage. It will serve as the center for student life for 
years to come with a food coun, bookstore, coffee shop, an international student 
center, collaboradve learning spaces and a state-of-the-art indoortrack. 

I want you to be excited about these changes. But remember, IPFW is more 
than just buildings and spaces; ifs a place of Tiew beginnings. Here is where you 
can feel comfonable and enjoy shared experiences by participating in activities, 
programs and extracurricular interests. 

Here is where you can meet new people, make new friends, discover your place 
in the world and learn how you can make a difference. Someday you, too. will look 
back and remember you were a part of it - 1 encourage you to take advantage of 
everything around you. 

Chancellor. Michael A. Warlell 



May T3, 2009 



Student life 



I Bigger, Badder, Biking 



'^^ 



Students to trek from California to Fort Wayne, reflect on local biking community 



Photos and Story 
By Lucas Carter 

lucaturlerphotagraptiy.iom 



Most would cringe at the 
thought of more than ■10 days 
and nights with just a bicycle, 
a few changes of clothes and a 
small bit of food. But for three 
former IPRV students, il will 
become a reality this summer. 

On May 30, IPFW students, 
Stephen Boyd, Mitch Green and 
Jeff Hernandez will take a (light 
to San Francisco, California and 
ride their hikes the entire way 
back to Fort Wayne. Equaling 
the length of nearly 47,000 
football fields (back- to-back), 
the trip will last around 40 days. 
Last summer. Boyd and a friend 
set out on a bike ride from Fort 
Wayne to the coast of Maine, 
but were not able to complete 
the trip. 

"My main problem on the 
last trip is that I didn't stretch 
each morning and I ended up 
pulling muscles while trying 
to bike up the Appalachian 
Mountains. I was already doing 
100 miles a day so physically 
J wasn't in the best of shape," 
Boyd said. "I always wanted to 
go bigger than last year. I really 
love riding my bike and I love traveling, 
perfect sense." 

Boyd got into biking about five years ago, as he 
recalls. Coming from a large family ivith only one car 
available, it wasn't long before he started looking for 
other forms of transportation. 

In the trek from San Francisco to Fort Wayne, the 




BIKERS: Jeff Hernandez, Mitch Green, and Stephen Boyd preparing for a 40 day bike ride across the United States. 



3 it made 



(M0 


^*^~10i 


2^ ji 


teA::' 


TT 


" 



three riders will be biking through arguably some 
of [he harshest conditions in America. Boyd noted 
several stretches of land where there's absolutely 
nothing - no gas stations, small towns, no civilization 
whatsoever On these sections, ifs a must to stay 
hydraled. Boyd notes that before each of these 
excursions (there's about four of them throughout 
the trip, one of them 

being through Nevada's ^^^^^^^^^^^^— ■ 

desert) each rider will 

make sure to have a full 

gallon of vvater. 

"We'll be waking up 

very early, like around 

four, with the goal of ^^^^— ^^— ^^— 

being done by the early 

afternoon. We will just have to suck il up I guess; 

there isn't really anything we can do about it." 

Boyd joked. 

Building Awareness 

The biking community has seen a very strong 
surge in the last few months. Everywhere around 
the world, people are realizing ttial biking places, 
instead of driving, is a very real possibility. 

"I want to do this trip for fun, but also to 
raise awareness about biking as an alternative 
form of transportation," Boyd noted. "1 think bike 
awareness is incredibly important. I haven't had 
a car for the last year and I realized how much I 
relied on cars. There were a lot of times I would 
drive when I very easily just could've rode. I think 
there's a lot of people that could get by with just a 
bike, they just don't realize it." 

FortWayneisintheprocessofplayingcatchup 
with many major American cities, as the Mayor's 
office established a new Bike Coalition that has 
goals set out to put bike lanes into roads and give 
more awareness to biking as a legitimate form of 
transportation. According to a siiivey from the 

BIKE RIDE: Former IPFW student Stephen 
Boyd raises his bike above his head during 
a ride around Grant County Indiana. 



"Biking has gotten 'cool' lately." 



City of Fort Wayne, as a part of the Bike Coalition and 
Bike Summit held by MayorTom Henry, 71 percent of 
people who responded to the survey rode their bikes 
at least once a week. Also, one in four people rode 
their bikes daily to work instead of relying on cars. 

"Biking has gotten 'cool' lately. It's getting very 

popular and I think it's only going lo get more 

popular." Boyd laughed. 

— "My age is getting into 

it, and I think once the 

younger kids get into it, 

it's really going to take off. 

I think it's just a matter of 

time. Fort Wayne is pretty 

' ■ far behind for a city of its 

size." 

Cool doesn't even scratch the surface of howmuch 

biking has taken off. Boyd notes that the company 

that makes the cycling routes. Adventure Cycling 

Association, had a modest 25,000 active members in 

2007. TVo years later they had more than doubled 

In addition to the Bike Coalition, Fort Wayne has 
been making several other strides to demonstrate 
just how many people do care about biking. Lately, 
the biggest event has been Critical Massi a 20- 
25 mile bike ride around the city. The ride has no 
predetermined course and has brought more than 
250 people of all ages to leisurely ride around Fort 
Wayne. Even Mayor Henry has joined in the fun. 

"I think Critical Mass is helping. We had over 100 
people in the second or third Critical Mass. hi three 
or four months it has just exploded," Boyd said. 

Pending the success of this trip. Boyd noted that 
he's already planning the coast-to-coast trip across 
America on tivo wheels. Depending on which route 
is picked, that trip could be any^vhere from 3800 
miles (California to Virginia) to as many as 4600 
miles (along the southern border). 

So what's the point? The next time you see people 
in biking attfre riding along the side of the road, don't 
be so quick to joke. It's becoming more and more 
popular as time goes on. Besides, they might just be 
laughing at you as you reach into your pocket and fill 
up your gas tank. 



May 13, 2009 



Student life 



pg. n 



TDePecMin^ JDcHcnih^nm 



\\n 




-^y Katy Anderson 



When selccliiig a iiniversily lo aiictid, one of (lie mosi " 
.„_tors to lonk at is localion. After all, iio one wants lo be i 
hanging out in dorm rooms or apartments for the next four y 

With major cities being hours away, prospects of enjoying a trently 
urban setting may seem bleak, not to mciilion expensive - ' ' 
consuming. 

Despite being portrayed as a family-oriented environment and liaving 
been hit hard by a depressed economy, Fori Wayne has been making 
advances in downtown development that may appeal lo those who are of 
college-age. are unable to afford trips to bigger cities, and arc looking for 
ilo socialize at. 

IThe Convention and Visitor's Bureau of i-urt Wayne] is spearheading 
dowiuown development. Downtown is heart of the community and it's 
really imporlant." Communications Manager lielsy Perry I'allon said. 

Although i( has faced numerous criticisms of its construction, the I 
doivntown baseball stadium drew 8200 spectators on li 
Ticket prices range from five to 32 dollars. A Tin Caps ticket can also be 
used for discounts at participating businesses, sucli as Pint &amp; Slice. Club 
Soda, and Stoner's Fun Store. These discounts can be found at bttp:// 
www.playdowni 

Theriatland , ^ ^ 

this, try Fort Wayne Ouiruiers and Bike Depot. I Icrc, you can rent kayaks. 
;s, and bikes and lake advantage of the summer weather. A nc\ ' 

1 will also be put in next to the C.lcnbrook Commons in the \, 

future, which caters lo those who arc looking for more alhlcllc activities. 
,. Indiana weather is notorious for being extremely 
unpredictahlc.whicbmayivarrant! - — 

always the old retail standbys, hut that can ; 
awhile. The Fort Wayne Museum of Art. the Botanical Conservatory, and 
Cinema Center are inexpensive and oftentimes offer student d' 

More businesses are not just beneficial for the cultural elc 
they add to the area. They also help in sf ' ' 

also says lliat lliere i... , 

! park, IMAX theatre, and more Harrison Square bu 

the downtown area. Another prospect is the addition ofa high-speed rail 
- - - - t Wayne, making it much more convenient to 
cities like Chicago. 

~ ' " activities. 



there's no home 
like Place 



Sign a lease today and 
receive August FREE! 

Resort Style Pool &amp; Hot tub 

Free Tanning 

iPod Docking Station In Every Apartment 

All Inclusive 

Fully Furnished 

Joe Place 

smart student living.com 

5204 St. Joe Road, Fort Woyne. 11^ 46835 

(260) 444-3000 

^ Left on Crescent Ave. Left on St. Joe Road. We're on the rigtit. 



May 13, 2009 



Student life I sports 



Athletic Funding 



By Kelly McLendon 

kcllynKlenclaneip hvcommu n i ca lor oig 



Ifmoneytalks, then Athletics isyelling-Thegroivth 
of Ihcir program demands the attention of students 
and their pockets. Rightfully, they should know where 
it's going. 

According to the 2008-09 estimated operatmg 
budget obtained from AthJetics. the IPFW Athletic 
Department had 53,671,928 total funds available. 

The total of estimated expenditures for the same 
fiscal year was estimated to be $3.67 1.928, This would 
make what was spent and what was earned perfectly 
even, with not even one cent left over. 

For starters, the money situation for athletics is 
unchanging. Income and funding has not directly 
changed since IPFW joined the Summit League 
Conference in July 2007,accordingtoAlhletic Director 
Tommy Bell. 

"Conference affiliation has not shown a one to 
one increase shown by dollars but there has been 
a marked public relations awareness with our 
conference membership. It has allowed us to better 
brand and promote IPFW," Bell said. 

Coaching bonuses also contribute to funding 
issues. Women's volleyball and Men's Cross-Counlry 
rank nationally in the top 10 based on the NCAA 
Academic Progress Bate (APRl- Those who coach 
teams who receive such distinction for the high 
academic performance of their teams get a monetary 
bonus. Therefore, there is an incentive for both 
the team members and the coaches, to strive for 
greatness, both on and ofTthe playing field. All IPFW 
sports programs meet the general NCAA Academic 
Progress, requirements. 

Anotheridea to lake into accountconcemsstudent 



rr 



" In the 2007-08 fiscal year, 
$1,575,000 from student fee income 
was given to athletics as revenue, 

fee income. In the 2007-08 fiscal 

year, SI. 575,000 from student fee income was given 
to athletics as revenue. Whether IPFW students like it. 
a certain amount of their money goes to athletics. 

While those are trivial concerns comparatively, 
the chance still exists that the budget could lake a 
turn for the worse if economic conditions continue 
to decrease. 

A 2004 USA Today article entitled, "Athletic 
spending grows as academic funds dry up," may be 
right on the mark. 

As academic funds grow scarce, athletic spending 
may be spaied. 

"Average athletic budgets rose at a pace more than 
double the increases in average university spending at 
Division 1 schools between 1995 and 2001. according 
to an analysis by USA TODAY and The Des Moines 
Regisler," USA TODAY said. 

"The escalating costs of college sports also are 
fueled by universities' desires to reap the benefits of 
a winning season, which can boost attendance and 
TV ratings, maintain alumni suppon and lift student 
and even regional morale," the same USA Today 
statement said. 

ltisIhesamecaseforIPFWsports.AsBellpreviously 
stated, funding and income did not change when 
athletics was added to the Summit League — only PR 
matters and the image of IPFW sports changed. 

For fiscal year 2007-08 $466,440 was estimated for 
marketing revenue, whereas $225,000 was the actual 
according to University Administrative 



Archives.Thisisadiscrepancyof$241,44C&gt;— 

a significant portion. 

Likewise, gift revenue for the 2007-08 

year was expected at $232,400 but turned 

out to be only $150,000, a loss of $82,400. 

The strict limitations of the economy may 
have decreased gift-giwng. 

Conversely, revenue from tickets was estimated 
to be S89.000 for 2007-08. but ended up at S106.000. 
which works out to be $17,000 more than expected. 
Even with lack of money, more revenue seems to be 
coming from ticket sales than in previous years. 

While funding and public relations issues may not 
be a problem riglit now, time will tell othenvise. There 
is always next year. 




Basketball $766,973 1 

Volleyball $374,564^1 

Tennis $115,319 

Soccer $268,672 1 

Baseball / Softball $371,457 ^| 

Cross Country $47,93o| 

Indoor / Outdoor Track $65,855 1 

Golf $15e,219| 



New free bus service will link 
campus to select destinations 



By HanaAI-Hawash 

Iiana.hawa5heipiwcammunkatar.org 



This coming fall, it will be possible 
for IPFW and Ivy Tech students, faculty 
and staff to travel to and from school, 
apartments and other locations, like 
restaurants and shops, for no cost at 
all. 

This project is what Citilink, 
Fort Wayne's bus service, is calling 
"Campuslink." Citilink has received a 
SI.2 million federal grant to provide 
this service to the two schools for three 
years, with the schools splitting the 
remaining 20 percent of the cost. Three 
26-passenger buses will be purchased. 
which leads to the re-employment of a 
few of the ten Citilink drivers that had 
beeri laid o^. 

The reason for this new project 
is simple. Citflink was ^ven a grant 
and saw an opportunity to help Fort 
Wayne and its students, as well as the 
atmosphere. If students take advantage 
of these buses, it was cause less 
congestion of traffic as well as lessen 
the amount of toxins going into the air 
from automobile emissions. 

"The intent is to reduce emissions.' 
Ken Housden, Omnibus General 
Manager, said. 

When surveyed, students and 
faculty had mixed responses as to 
whether they would actually use this 
free service or not. 

"Timing is going to turn the tap 
here. If a student can get from housing 
to Kettler in less time than it takes to 



walk, then I think students may use the 
service." said Virginia Relph, an English 
teacher at IPFW. 

Thebuses will run routesabout every 
five minutes, going to further spots 
less often. The buses will also connect 
to the normal Citilink bus routes, but 
the cost will still be low. For students, 
faculty and staff, the normal route bus 
passes for a month will go from $45 to 
$9, an 80 percent cost reduction. 

"Some of the stimulus money 
was given to Citilink to develop new 
audiences - so they came to us and 
asked if we needed a bus service," 
Chancellor Michael Wanell said. 

Citilink is trying to help Fort Wayne 
become environmentally friendly 
whenever possible. They are hoping 
that this program will cut down on 
traffic in areas around school, which 
will lead to less pollution. 

Citilink and IPFW alikeurgestudents 
to take advantage of the service. While 
the bus may seem a little shady, or 
maybe the word "bus" instills fear into 
your heart, worrying is pointless. 

The passengers of this bus will be 
comprised mosdy of your peers and 
teacliers, ifall goes as planned. 

"It is for students, so if you are 
afraid of your classmates, then I can 
understand that. ..[But] it can be used 
by everyone," Housden said. 

There is no reason not to take the 
bus when it can save you precious gas 
money. In the words of Housden, "ifs 
free!" 




sports 




■ Phil Peterson may jus t be the guy to surpass his sport by paying his dues and following in the right footsteps along the way 




Story by Dan Vance • Photo by Lucas Carter 

Respect can go a long way in world- renowned names for 



&amp;.■. 

K 



I 



sports. From respect of your sport, 
for your peers, to your teammates 
and coaches - it is an all-important 
element in sport. 

Men's volleyball player Phil 



volleyball," Peterson said with an 
impressed glaze in his eyes. "The 
time 1 was going through recruiting 
and seeing IPFW on ESPN. I was 
watching like, they're in the Final 



Peterson is IPFW's embodiment of Four, 'hey I could be on ESPN one 

the word. Peterson himself is the day,' this could work." 
personification of a volleyball purist. After interaction throughout 

He will openly and knowledgeably his high school career with Ptak 

discuss elements of his spon and and another IPFW assistant, Ryan 

even his school. He'll dig, in awe, into Perrotte, during the luniorOlympics, 

names of players from IPFW's big Peterson was all but dead set on 

time volleyball past like a basketball becomingaMastodon.Hecompleted 

fan would discuss Michael Jordan. his time at Frontier as an American 

That in itself is almost as Volleyball Coaches Association High 

impressive as Peterson's work on School All-American in 2008, 
the court. 



'He has a real natural gift for 
the game," said Mastodon Head 
Coach Arnie Ball of the 6-foot-8 
Peterson. "You can't teach size and 



honor reserved for just 12 players. 

Also on that list was future IPFW 
teammate Eric Hardek, serving as 
anotlier connection for Phil at IPFW. 
Besides Hardek and Ptak, Former 



his athleticism and his ability to play club volleyball teammate ]J. Meyer 
the game." was already a red shin freshman in 

Peterson took his game to a the program. 



high level during his freshman year 
at IPFW in 2009. serving strong 
purposes both off the bench and in 
the starting lineup. He ended his 
^season virtttTT'f 4 kills, ranked fourth 
on the team and establishinghis high 

flying hit style 

alongside IPFW's 
other two big 
outside and 
opposite hitters 
Darr&gt;'l Shank and 
Ben Duckworth. 
"You have 



"He has the potential to 

be one of the stronger 

players to ever come out 

of our program." 



h was during a visit to the 
IPFW campus that the Mastodons' 
longtime leader Ball sold Peterson 
for sure on the idea of becoming a 
Mastodon by promising thetalented 
hitter that he would do whatever it 

takes to make 

sure he continued 
to improve every 
day he played at 
IPFW. With his 
comfort level 
wth Arnie Ball at 
an all time high. 



to grow up really quick if you are Peterson 

going to be a starter, especially as a "I've learned more about 

freshman," Peterson said. volleyball in these months than I 

But it was Peterson's respect have all of high school, all of club, 

and knowledge for the sport that He's an amazing coach," Peterson 

even allowed him to ever put on a says now of Ball. "I learned right 

Mastodon jersey in the first place. away that he's always right." 

Onethemostdecoratedvolleyball Since Uien, Peterson has 

players to ever come out of Frontier developed both die highsand lows of 

Central High School in Hamburg, his game. From working closely with 

New York, it was partially natural Ptak, who was hired as nn outside 

for Peterson to follow another man hitter coach at the beginning of the 

who also shares that title - IPFW season, to learning how and when to 

Assistant coach leff Ptak. After Ptak's takeonaleadershiproleonihecoun. 



time at Frontier, he went on to be an 
Atl-American for the Mastodons in 
2003. 

"First player they (at Frontier) 
alvrays talked about was leff Ptak," 
Peterson said. 'From my freshman 
on up, I was like '1 would love 
lie go to IPFW and follow in his 
footsteps." 



He also credits now graduated Mike 
Morici as teaching him the most and 
filling the biggest hole in Peterson's 
game -his backcoun defense. 

As he continues to improve on 
the court and grow mentally, the 
respect Peterson has for his sport, 
school, coaches and teammates 
may end up putting him alongside 



Peterson played on die junior Ptak again in people's eyes, but with 

varsity team at Frontier before a different title, 

joining the varsit\' squad as a "Phil is only limited to his own 

sophomore, but all the while kept work ethic and own determination 

his ej-e on IPFW and even became as to where he wants to go. " Ball 

acquainted with the school's says marter-of-facdy "He has the 

extensive volleyball history. potential to be one of the stronger 

"I saw he (Ptakj played with players to ever come out of our 

Hector Soto: those kind of names: piogram if he so desires." 




May 13, 2009 SpOTtS pg. ?4 



♦ ^fW 



Program continues growth 

■ A message from Intramural director Ron Clark 

Welcome to another gieac year at ping pong, dodgeball, golf, ultimate 



IPFW. We are coming off our highe 
participation numbers ev?r. In seven 
short years, our inlramural program 
has grown substantially with over 1800 
students participating in 18 sports and/ 
The Intramural Program 



frisbee and tennis. 

Intramuralsalsohosts several single 
day events that include: Mastodon 
Stomp 5K Run/WaJk. disc golf. Fall 
Fest Comhote Tournament, Putt 
Putt Challenge. Punt, Pass and Kick 



is becoming h vital part of the IPFW Challenge and Home Run Derby. 



Except for golf and special 
tournaments, the cost for Intramurals 
is free. 

Our website will have the updated 
schedule and events and registration 
deadlines. All sports programs are 
divided into male, female, and co-rec 
Participation is easy. Students must be leagues. You can sign up on the site to 
enroUed in at least one IPFW credit receive information about InUamural 
hour to participate. sports when it is time to register so you 

The Intramural sports program won't miss out. Our website is www. 
is designed to give students a well- ipfw.edu/intramiirals for rules and 
rounded collegiate experience. The schedule times for registration, 
program is also open to all IPFW 



campus experience. The intramural 
program is designed to increase your 
college experience at IPFW. Our hope 
that you and your friends will take 
this opponunity to get inolved. We 
encourageyoutoparticipateandforma 
team on one of ournumerous activities. 



faculty and staff members who wish to 
participate. 

Intramural sports program offers 
the following sports: basketball, 
volleyball, sand voLeyball, walleyball, 
flag football, htness class, billiards, 



If you are interested in being 

a sports official, or want more 

information about Intramurals 

contact Ron ClarkrlM DiTertor, at 

4S1-S617 or clarketpfw.edu 



^Oll 

IHalf off! 



_Lght! 

HOiCE Appetizers 1 

w*~ Stud€nt id o. »." 1 

UNtvERsmr OR SchooJ 



JI,H.i»i.ii,U iU.Ul^J.LIJJTm 



Rockin' Shakespeare 
vyi Theatre Masters 



^ 



The IPFW Community Arts Academy 
Offers teenagers cool Summer workshops 
in theatre, music, and art i/j. 

Musical Theatre Intensive 

Exploring Pottery 

Metalsmithing 

Pewtersmithing 

Music Technology t&amp;ll 

^ Manga Mania 
Manga Action 
Photography for 

Young Adults 

Don't Wait - Register Now 

: listing of our classes, visit our Web site at 

ww/w.i pfw.edu/vpa/caa 

Call Maggie to register your student at 260-481 -6059 

register online at httpsV/learn.Jpfw.edu/ShowGroups.awp 



Beginning Show Choir 
Advanced Show Choir 
Multi-Media Painting 



4; 

For acomplcE 



4. 



Somewhere between the words 

"week old" and "pizza" you begin to 

wonder, "Do I have health insurance?' 



INTRODUCING w-^---. 

Indigo Indivtduar'^ Health Insurance. 

illness (moldy pizza-related or ottienA/ise) doesn't core wtiether or not you have 
heolth insurance. Thafs wtiy PHP is introducing Indigo Individual. It provides the 
essential benefits of group health insurance to college students like yourself. 
So even if you're in school you con have insurance coverage in case of illness or 
iniury. To find out more, coll us at 800-982-6257 or visit us online at phpni.com 
and dick on the Indigo link. Because everyone desen/es great health insurance. 



PHP 

The insurance your lieallh deserves. 
800-982-6257 www.phpnl.com 



by 13. 2009 SpOTtS 



pg. 15 



Not^ust ar^ther 





As he leads the IPFW men's basketball program into establishing their conference 
affiliated identity, Ben Botts has had to be anything but ordinary 

By Monica Gerdeman 

monlca.getdtmanSiplwcomniunicatar.arg 



According lo Basketball Prospectus of America 
only two percent of college basketball players 
seeing minutes this season are 5'9" or less which 
means IPFW sophomore Ben Bolts barely made the 
cut. Standing at 5'10 " Botts started at IPFW in 20D7 
wearing number 12, and as a freshman exceeded all 
expectations \vith an average of ten points and two 
rebounds per game. 

"Depending on the circumstances height can be 
a problem, no question. That's one diing that I'm 
constantly coaching Ben on, that he cannot allow 
people to lake advantage of his 5'10 frame," Head 
Coach Dane Fife said. "He needs to be physical and 
be in position at all times. Smaller guys have to focus, 
but 1 think Ben has a good understanding as far as 
knowing the position, the situation and where he 
needs to be." 

Botts attended Muncie Central high school where 
he was named as an Indiana All-star, Associated Press 
All-State Selection, and First Team All-NCC two years 
in a row, and was a part of Central 4A Championship 
title games. He played fooiball for his first two years 
al Muncie, but when he decided that basketball was 
what he really wanted to do, he chose to concentrate 
on his sport to finish his high school career. Botts did 
well in the classroom loo, holding a 4.1 GPA, on a 4.0 
scale, throughout his senior year. 

"I started watching him when he was a sophomore 
in AAU. He didn't back down and his team always 
played against other good teams. Ben's a winner 
first and foremost and I think that is first in his mind 
and lo this day there's no doubt in my mind that Ben 
comes into work to make himself belter and trying to 
make the team better in order to \vin," Fife said. 

Being one 

of eight plays 
recruited from 
Indiana, choosing 
IPFW wasn't hard 
for Botts. 

"I feel it's 
pretty cool lo be 
from Indiana and 
playing for IPFW 
because there are people and coaches around here 
that have heard of me. It's kind of nice." Botts sdd. 
"I Uke the proximity to home I liked that we had jusi 
gotten into the conference when I signed, and we are 
getting belter every year." 

Starting his sophomore year, Bolts scored 22 
points against MSU but wasn't showing up on the 
other pages of the stat book. 

"I think Ben struggled in the first part of his 
sophomoreyear.Hewasputlingtoomuchpressureon 
himself. Ben's always searching for ways lo motivate 
himself and I'm looking for a big jump between this 
year and his junior year," Fife commented. 

Moving into a solid junior year is a goal for Botts. 





IPFW Statistics 


Ffeshman Sophomore 


Points 


311 338 


Assists 


30 47 


Hebs 


61 71 


3PM/A 


S8/128 55/130 









HBhl' \ ^ 


^^^^^ 



Great Jobs With Flexible Hours 

nttii SMMi IV fm ito V fw rk« tail AMr 

Flexible Houn i GREAT PAYII 

WttlferllNOHiomfimk 

Earn $8,00 to $13,00 per Hour 

800-622-6566 



vnfmti*mmitntamamwtrt Pui nm ii\o»m tt4 ipi\atimmmt» 

NmtUeimiAinMmMMweiHiiiMii niiHHurmJitlitllmmKM. 
imlitut). ummtHtmimiiHh. 

3/31/09 

Uff( u M A* HM i( A«nieflyfct.con) 



rJ^sS^' '-^sm 




iPf\i\icotvm&gt; 

IPfWCOMMUi 



A publiulian of Indiana-Puiduc Student Newspaper^ Inc. 



Photos by Lucas Carter 

He hopes to really work on his defense and step up 
his game yet anotlier giant leap. 

"I need lo have a louglier mind set," Botts 
admitted. "As far as next year goes, we will have more 
guys coming back than any other year ihal I've been 
here. My advice for anyone next year interested in 
playing would be to manage your time and study. 
Don't leave yourself in a situation where you have to 
pull two all nighters in a row." 




Dan Vance 

Managing Editor 



Aaron Greene 
Graphic Design 

Lucas Carter 
Photography 
Editor 



Wjib Union S&lt;Me21S 

ZIOIColMumBM] tK\ 

Fot Miynr. m 4630S 

Ntwuoom / itsna 

coot*clff*twcDmmumaio' org 



Officii) Wrtwu 




May 13, 2009 SpOftS pg. 16 




How the Summit League saved IPFW 

■ Conference affiliation took a down on its luck program and made it a viable threat and even a leader on multiple levels 
In All Directions - opEd 



By Dan Vance 
uante-iad.blogspot.ci 



Everything about IPFW sports changed on 
August 30, 2006 - a saving grace pulled the athletic 
department from an uneasy stale and made il a viable 
comodily again. 

Ilwasontbatday, inside the packedWalb Ballroom 
that Mid-Continent Conference commissioner Tom 
Douple welcomed IPFW as the newest member of the 
25 year old conference. The conference would go on 
to change it's name to the Summit League, where the 
Mastodon sports teams have competed for the past 
two seasons. That's all old news, what's not is just 
how much the conference affiliation saved IPFW. 

The move to Division I in 2001 was a fiscally 
irresponsible move. Then Athletic Director Walt 
Bowman really had no idea what he was doing when 
he decided to make the jump. The Faculty Senate 
withheld support at the time for the move and in 
the first four years the school held a Dl status, the 
operating and actual budgels have exceeded the 
projected budgets. 

Worse than all of that, after a Bowman resignation, 
the move was left in the hands of new AD Mark Pope, 
who while a great man, had no athletic background, 

IPFW could not compete on the Dl level 
financially, athletically, structurally or in support 
from the community at-large. 

"You can't just take what you have and diink you 
are going to be fine. It's been proven at institution 
after institution," says current IPFW Athletic Director 
Tommy Bell, who took over in the fall of 2007. 




Photo by Lucas Carter / 1ucascartcfphotographv.com 

SLIDE: Baseball, with players like Devin Taylor, 
have experienced first hand the tJifference a 
conference makes 

And he's more than right. From 2001 to 2007, IPFW 
struggled in every one of those regards. Not until the 
school began Summit League play in the 2007-200B 
school year could the Mastodons be a threat. 



The Summit Leagued saved IPFW athletics 
financially. 

"We look at everything thai we here fiscally on 
how to manage our dollars the best way." Bell says, 
"One thing about conference affiliation, that's an 
income stream." 

IPFWcannowexpeci income from the conference, 
expanding marketing possibilities through Nelligan 
Marketing, through hosting events like tlic 2009 
Summit League Tennis Championships, Also, the 
conference affiliation raises community awareness 
to boost donations through things like the Arnie Ball 
Legacy Endowment Campaign. 

The Summit League saved IPFW athletic team's 
abihty to compete. The main thing is that now every 
teamiscompelingtomake the NCAA Tournament in 
their given sport, a place that is impossible to reach as 
an Independent as the Mastodons were for six years. 

In 2008-2009 alone, baseball lopped Purdue t^vice, 
men's basketball took national runner-up Michigan 
State to the limit, many athletes were ranked in 
national statistics and tennis player Amy Recht was 
one of the nation's very best singles players. 

The Summit League made IPFW athletics better 
structurally, both with facilities and with personeL 
The facility advancement will takea huge step with the 
Student Services and Library Complex that will triple 
the size of the existing Milliard Gales SportsCcnter. 

'The new addition is really going to help our 
image.' Bell notes. 'We are going to explode as 
a Division 1 institution with the addition of the 
facility." 

An ex-plosion that, thanks to the Summit League, 
pushes IPFW from their small time reality into scenery 
more fitting of the school's big time mentality. 




(260) 490-5060 



The New 



MkAM feneration 
roaC5Sa of country! 

/T^JTOTRfy^^ The Bar for 

LULLL UYTT /Y r LJ ^„ fenerations! 



6040 Lima Rd. Ft. Wayne, IN 46818 



Wednesdavs! 



Karaoke 

$1.00 Longnecks 
$3.00 You Call it! 
$1.00 Food 
$1.00 Cover 
$2.50 ALL Bombs 



Coming this 
Summer! 



Fridavs! Saturdays! 



LADIES GET 
IN FREE 

Get in FREE 
w/ Q student ID 



$2.50 X BOMBS 

6 shots just 
$1.50 each 

Great Live Bands 



ALL Bombs $2.50 



[Neon Armadillo jConcert Series 



Wicks 



,or 11 I ... , „ . 



Highway 101 

June 31 



