Indiana University 



Purdue University • Fort Wayne 



The Communicator 



INSIDE: 



| Words of a superhero 

Former IPFW student writes a novel 
about a female superhero. Page 6. 



I Getting friendly 

'Friendster' makes online 
life a bit faster, fun. Pag- 



I Fowl balls fair runs 

Tyler Fowler knocks out three 
home runs in one game. Page 10 



Volume 34, Issue 27 



upfwcommunicator.org 



Wednesday, April 14, 2004 



Home, recycled home 



For most families, building a 
home consists of hiring a contrac- 
tor and waiting for a move-in 

Some others, however, make 
it much more personal. 

Maude-Jo Baczynski, current 
reigning Miss IPFW and freshman 
on campus, has seen her family's 
domicile grow literally from the 
ground up during the past nine 

And the growth of her home 
was different than many. Instead 
of standard installation, the 
Baczynskis used recycled tires and 
aluminum for the interior walls. 
Instead of concrete, the walls are a 
made of adobe - a mix of mud, 
straw and cement. 

"But where we're living, you 
can't see it (the tires or cans). It's 
all covered by adobe," Baczynski 

The project, which took near- 
ly a decade to complete, is situat- 
ed in rural Noble County. Her 
family - which includes two 

Continued on Page 2 




Called the "earthship" by 
original architect Michael 
Reynolds, the family of 
IPFW student Maude-Jo 
Baczynski will soon be 
moving into their home 
built with a significant 
amount of recycled materi 
als. Tires (inset) and alu- 
minum cans act as insula- 
tion. Maude-Jo is the cur- 
rent Miss IPFW. 




Tuition set to 
increase 4 % 



Taking The Walk of Life 



Relay Saturday 
hopes to help 
fight cancfir 



Paradise is coming to IPFW. 
But only in the form of the 
American Cancer Society's Relay 
For Life event. 

And although IPFW has been 
host to many Relay For Life events, 
"IPFW in Paradise" will be the first 
annual event that pinpoints IPFW 
students. 

"It is open to the public, it is 
also targeted at IPFW, but we actu- 
ally have a few high school teams," 
noted Carmen Parker, the 
Northeast Indiana Community 
Development Director for 
American Cancer Society, noting 
that the June event at Northrop 
High School falls during the time 
of many high school graduations. 

Opening ceremonies will take 
place at 6 p.m. on Friday, April 16 
with events following right up 
through noon on Saturday, April 
17. Other key events include the 
Luminaria Ceremony at 9 p.m. on 
Friday, followed by the band 
Crossroads playing at 10 and the 
closing ceremony at 11:30 a.m. on 
Saturday. 

"It gives the students a chance 
to participate in the fight against 
cancer and it,s proven with college 
help, they (Relay for Life) have 
been able to raise a lot of money," 
said Relay,s Sherri Emerson on one 
of the perks on the event. 

Parker added, "I realize that 
there is the perception that college 
students don,t have money, but 
that doesn,t mean that these events 
can,t raise a lot of money." 

Parker backed up her state- 
ment by citing that Michigan State 
University, who split their event 



into two events (one for Greeks 
and one for students) due to over- 
whelming support, raised $170,000 
within this last month. 

The Relay For LifeJs another 
opportunity for IPFW to help the 
American Cancer Society, along 
with events such as the Great 
American Smokeout. Parker and 
Emerson both were outspoken 
about IPFW's unending support on 
the fight against cancer through 
volunteering and use of campus 
facilities. 

"I think it's a student opportu- 
nity as well just to get involved 
with the university and something 
on campus and help see that par- 
ticipation in campus events will 
increase," said Parker. "IPFW is 
kind of setting an example for 
other universities around the area." 

Huntington College and Tri- 
State are both looking into holding 
their own Relay For Life events 

Other events that will take 
place during IPFW's event include 
theme hours, where each hour will 
see a new theme and activities to 




Relay For Life is scheduled for 
April 16-17 at IPFW. 

go along with the theme (i.e. 
Margaritaville Hour with "Jimmy 
Buffett Jeopardy and Vegas Nights 
Hour with "Casino Games.") Food 
and beverages will also be provid- 
ed thanks to the four main event 

Continued on Page 2 




I'hrlr ;&lt;("&lt; i:''..' 

Luminaries are a tradition at Relay For Life events. Candles lit 
traditionally have names of survivors and victimes of cancer. 



Purdue officials approved a 4 
percent hike in tuition for in-state 
residents and a 6-percent increase 
for the 2004-2005 fiscal year. 

"Every nickel of revenue 
included in this fix increase goes to 
areas that directly affect students," 
Purdue President Martin C. (ischke 
said Friday. 

For IPFW students, a resident 
who paid $4,572 in 2003-2004 will 
look at paying $4,755 for 2004- 
2005; a non-resident will look at an 
increase taking a 2003-2004 tuition 
of $11,002.50 to $11,662.50 next 

Jischke said state support is 
slipping for higher education 
after 20(13 "displayed snlid support 
for education." 

The approval came after 
Purdue University held an open 
forum on proposed tuition increas- 
es for fiscal year 2005 the day prior. 
IPFW was connected via video in 
Kettler Hall Room G22 on 
Thursday -but the attendance was 



nil. 

Other than university officials 
and members of the press, no stu- 
dents or community members 
were present. 

"I'm surprised," said Jack 
Dahl, Associate Vice Chancellor for 
Institutional Research and 
Planning at IPFW, "but I have to 
say my expectation was wrong." 
Despite newspaper advertisements 
and two rounds of press releases, 
no members of the public attended 
the forum. The forum was pro- 
posed to give the public a voice 
into the budget-making process for 
the fiscal year of 2005. 

The total budget for the cur- 
rent fiscal year of 2004 at IPFW is 
approximately $72.9 million. 

Both IU and Purdue held 
open forums on proposed budget 
increases for the next fiscal year; 
each university held to the maxi- 
mum of a 4-percent increase pro- 
posed by Indiana Governor Joseph 
Keman for state universities. The 
presidents and staffs of both uni- 

Continued on Page 2 



Ride of a lifetime to 
benefit other lives 

this way will be unique," he said. 

The trip, about 4,000 miles, 
will take the Fort Wayne native 
through a dozen states from the 
hills of Virginia through the Ohio 
Valley, across the Great Plains and 
over the Rocky Mountains. 

Arata is looking forward to 
the beauty, but he also understands 
there will be difficulties. Some of 
those have been documented by 
other riders in the past - and he's 
read their entries. 

Continued on Page 2 



He's not really fond of the 
tight shorts, but aside from that 
inconvenience, IPFW senior Adam 
Arata is looking forward to his 

Arata, a philosophy major, is 
going to spend about nine weeks 
bike riding from Virginia Beach, 
Va. to Cannon Beach, Ore. as a part 
of "Bike &amp; Build." 

"I'm really looking forward to 
the experience — to see the country 




Photo by Scott M. J 

IPFW senior Adam Arata will be making an approximate- 
ly 4,000 mile bike ride this summer in an effort to help the 
non-provide organization "Bike &amp; Build." 




IPFW freshman Josh 
Collins had career 
night with 20 kills 
and seven digs against 
Ohio State on April 10 
in a tough loss. 




OA.R. rocked the 
Memorial Coliseum 
Saturday in a show 
sponsored by IPFW 
SAB. 



of a revolution 



page 3 




Page 2 The Communicator 



News 



April 14, 2004 



Last Bash set 

Student! irnmentand to* 

iani 'ii'" 's &lt; iffice presents ih&lt; 
Fourth Annual I asl Bash 
Barbeque Kl for Thursday, April 
' ' fifOOl 1 I .i.m In T p.m. a 
Grassy Knoll. 

■. i . . i h .■ . &gt;.-. Ith the &gt;■■ lalizing ol 
an) i&gt; irbequi . then wiD al o be 

■ n and "!' I lj I I foi 

.,ii itudents, fai ulty and tain 

Honors Travels 

n„ Ho Progra flPFW 

sponsoring a day trip to i he 

II I in-! Museum On April 24. 

i hi Saturday trip lasts From 720 

i.nv until 9:15 p.m. and 

ncludc options to i he I out 
[MAX: NASCAR 3D, the Outdoor 
Village, &lt;i factory row and the 

rum ,1 .ell 

The tost is between $12 • S15. 
i riend and family are welcome 
along&lt; For more information, 

isi 6924 or stop by Kettlet 
Hail R 3 ■ 

Gospel Fest, 
Chalk Artist set 






'It should be a really 
night. It will have &lt;i great 
sage," Nick Becker of lnterVarsity 
said. 

On Sunday, April 25, 3CC 
presents &lt; lospel Fesl Explusi 

6 p.m Some Ol Indiana's finest 
gospel artists and praise choirs 

■.l,iir,l ii&gt; perform. 



Relay 



Pag 

sponsors; IPFW, Parkview Cancer 
Center, Windsong Pictures and 
Subway, 

Although teams have been set 
up, any person is welcome to show 
up on sight and participate. 
Donations for those not on learns 
.ire apprei Sated qOl nol mandatory. 

"Even it they don't want to 
make a donation, if they want to 
just come Out and absorb what the 
relay is about and experience, they 
are more than welcome to just 
come out and experience that," 
said Parker. 

Clarification 

Scottv Jones is not solely try- 
ing to organize the Sept. 12 AIDS 
walk at Law Urn Park, but is work- 
ing with others to challenge IPFW 
student groups to take part. 

There will be a meeting on 
April 22 at 1:30 p.m. to help estab- 
lish a team of walkers. Tlie Human 
Services Student Organization is 
i-halli'iiging students and student 
groups to participate. 

For more information on 
either the AIDS Walk or the Fort 
Wayne AIDS Task Force, contact 
either snationuiJaidslnrlwavne.org 
or for more information about 
1PFW HSSO, email 

joneslU3@ipfw.edu. 



Home, recycled home 

Continue from Page One 

gr.irulpan 



\ I In 



3,200 squa 



ey live in Kendallville and are 
airing dryer times so they won't 
,ve to deal with mud. 

At their new dwelling, they 
feet of living 
measures 5,200 
■el outside - the walls for the 
nme are three feet thick. 

"It's different - it's really neat 
) tell people about. It's economic 
nd cost-effective, too," Bac/ynski 



The recycled t 



The home faces the south an 
have all of its windows built tha 
direction. Together with the tires, i 
type of temperature control lake: 
plac 



In ilu- 



■,the 



around 65 degrees in thei 

That means low heating hills - 
,m&lt;\ the window positioning means 
they rarely need to use lights dur- 
ing the day, cutting down on the 
electricity bill. 

She doesn't anticipate any real 
troubles with the home in the 
future, but does admit any thing's 
possible. Precautionary measures 
are in place already. 

"There's never any guaran- 
tees, but that's why we have our 
backup heat, three woodbuming 
stoves for fireplaces and radiant 
floor hearing. There's never going 
to be a time where we're freezing 
We have backups; we just don't use 
them if we don't need them," she 
said. 

Her father, Mike IW/ynski, 
said he was inspired by a new type 
of engineering design for homes 
that became popular in the south- 

"l'd researched it When I first 
read about it, I thought 'This is 
kind of crazy.' But the more I 

looked into it, it seemed feasible," 

They first built a single room 
to see if it was not just feasible, but 
a good idea for a home. From that, 
they decided it would work. 

Tlie design was from architect 
Midiael Reynolds, and officially 
it's called an "earthship." 
Reynolds, from New Mexico, 
wrote a book explaining how to 
build the earthships in 1990 and - 
according to a 2002 article in The 
Guardian - hundreds of the struc- 
tures have been self-built in 
Reynolds's home state. 




Mike Bac/ynksi w 
hensive the idea might 
when he first began inquiring 
about the earthship model. 

"I bought a couple of his 
books and read them. About half 
the book was engineering and 
the rest was theory. The engi- 
neering side started to make a 
whole lot of sense," he said. 

Recalling the days of build- 
ing the earthship brings back a 
lot of memories for Maude-Jo. 

"It was a lot of hard work. 
During the summers, we'd go 
out there every day and every 
day during the school year. But 
in the end, I think it was worth 
i big family project. 



In 



of 



the 



B,u/\ nskis spent between 
$50,000 and $60,000 worth of 
recycled and other materials 
The labor costs have been mini- 
mal because it's been a family- 
oriented project. 

Outside workers would 
have probably raised the prices 
four-fold. Mike Kaizynski esti- 

To him, the 
just a residence. 
"It's 







than just a house or building 
When you go into it, it's not 
quite the weirdness of being a 
living thing, but it's more than 
just a structure. It's built into the 
earth and has a lot of our history 
there," he said. 

And the past history will e d"f nn; center, ali 
also lead to .1 lot of future histo- . 

., . , . i- cans can be seen as the coi 

rv Maude-jo believes. 

"We know we're never struction is underway. Ab 
going to let it out of the family - the completed family roor 
we've worked on it so much." shown. 



After, before, after 

Top, the kitchen in its complet- 



IPFW Earth Day celebrations set 

The IPFW Biology Club is hosting an Earth Day plaza area. They will have free information and 

celebration, Iridav, April Id. from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. demonstrations of their products, sen ices, or issues. 

The events will take place on the Walb Student Jessamine Lengacher of the IPFW Biology Club says 

Union plaza area and in the Friends Pavilion on the there are plans to have some children's entertainment, 

west side of Walb. too. 

A number of local and area businesses and For additional information, call Lengacher at 

environmental groups will have booths set up on the 420-5494, or by e-mail at jesamosef@aol.com. 



Ride 

Continue Trom Page One 

"Anytime they write of a 
weather system, there's usually an 
F-word before it," he explained. 

So, aside from the uncomfort- 
ably tight biking shorts, the rains, 
wind and battles with uphill jour- 
neys, he's looking forward to the 
experience. He thinks he'll be able 
to battle through the blisters and is 
slightly more worried about 
wrecking and suffering from road 

Battling through stormfronts 
will probably be the toughest, he 

"Unless the weather is con- 
sidered life-threatening, I think 
we're going through it," he 
explained. 

He is the only person from 
IPFW or Fort Wayne committed to 
the trip this year. He has befriend- 
ed a few people from Bloomington 
set up to go on the trip, and 
believes it will be an event of a life- 

"From what I've heard, it real- 
ly is an experience. Between the 
travel, and the people you meet, 
and the fact that it is for a good 
benefit, there are a lot of reasons to 
do it," he said. 

Along with other bikers, he 
will be staying with families and 
community centers helping the 
teams along the way. There are 
three routes and three teams that 
cross the United States every sum- 
mer. His is taking the most south- 
ern route through America. 

Arata has needed to raise 
$4,000. He is near his goal, but not 
quite there. Anyone interested in 
helping him can contact him at 
afarata@yahoo.com. More infor- 
mation on the project is available 
at bikeandbuild.org. 

The organization works to 
fund- 



ing for dif- 


"You just 


Habitat for 


don't get 


Humanity 
programs -- 
this year the 


many 
chances like 


funds are 
going to 


this in life." 


versify 


Adam Arata 


H 1 H s , 
including 


IPFW senior 



Dartmouth and Virginia Tech. 

While they'll receive the 
major portions of funding this 
year, other organizations are also 
benefitting throughout the nine 
week trek. 

"Bike &amp; Build directs funds, 
volunteers and community and 
media attention to affordable 
housing efforts," the organization 
states in a brochure. "Our program 
acts as catalysts to build homes, 
foster the spirit of service and 
empower young adults," it adds. 

For Arata, it is an opportunity 
he couldn't pass up. It will be a 
personal adventure that helps oth- 






Blood drive scheduled for Thursday at Walb Union 



Staff Report 

The Communicator 



Drive at IPFW on Thursday, April American Red Cross from IPFW. Anyone interested in donating 6609. 

15 from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. in the Because of the overwhelming blood and wanting to set up an Those giving blood are 

Walb Student Union. turnout, more workers will be appointment can do so through the reminded to bring identification. 

During the 2003 Blood Drive, available this year to cut down on Student Life Office, Room 115 of Free ["-shirts are going to be given 

about 100 people gave blood to the waiting lines. Walb Student Union or call 481- to donors, along with food. 



Editorial Board 

Scott M. Lawson, Editor 

S.G. Wahlberg, Managing Editor 

Kurtis Meyers, Arts A Entertainment Editor 

Nick West, Sports Editor 

Katie Pruitl, Copy Editor 

K.K. Casey, Chief A 

Josh Vargas, Advertising Designer 

Aiden Bordncr, Advertising Manager 

Dorie Reynolds, /' 



Contact Us 

The Communicator 
Walb Union; Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Editor: (260)481-6584 

Publisher: (260) 481-6585 

Advertising: (260)481-6583 

Fax: (260)481-6045 

www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Editorial Policy 



ly reflect "the views of IPFW, its 
employees or its student body. A 
column is solely the opinion of 



columns must be signed. Sated 
and accompanied by a 



ered for publication. 



All submissions made via e- 
mail will be verified by tele- 
phone or in person. Addresses 
and telephone numbers will not 
be published. 

Submis ions must be typed, 
double-spaced and no more than 
400 words. 

The editorial board of The 
Communicator reserves the 
right to edit all submissions for 
length, grammar, style and clar- 
ity. Letters deemed libelous hv 



April 14, 2004 



News 



The Communicator Page 3 



4 % tuition hike 

Continue from Page One 



versifies created a budget proposal 
for the next fiscal year and then 
this proposal was brought to the 
respective Boards of Trustees. 

Purdue University determines 
the budget of IPFW. While Purdue 
determines the budget, the propos- 
al sought by IPFW is usually grant- 
ed. 

Next year, the proposed budg- 
et demonstrates a 6.1 percent 
increase to approximately $77.3 
million. This year, student fees 
brought in $35,590,329 dollars of 
revenue, while next year's pro- 
posed budget shows an 8.7 percent 
increase in student fee revenue, 
totaling $38,701,459. That number 



brings in about SI percent of the 
school's revenue, Jischke said. 

From the revenues generated 
by the new student fee increase, 
new faculty positions will receive 
an allocation totaling $223,688. 
Other examples of the fee-increase ■ 
revenue distribution include 
$30,000 for the Omnibus lecture 
series, and $100,000 for library 

The IPFW fiscal year 2005 
budget also includes a 41.3 percent 
increase in staff benefits. $1,130,100 
has been allocated for salary 
increases and adjustments in the 
IPFW staff. 



Field School taking 
place May 17-June 25 

Most col lege courses don 'I allow you to go outside and "play in 
the dirt." The Anthropologv I 'Vparlmrnl is ottering ,1 five week course 
where you can earn six credit hours plus practical held experience as a 
student in the IPFW Art li.ieologn.al Sun ev's held School May 17 to 
June 25. Anyone interested in taking the course must fill out an applica- 
tion and return it to Professor Robert G. McCullough, director of the 
Survey by Friday, April 16. 

McCullough says the field school is a very important part of the 
Survey's multi-year research program, which focuses on population 
dynamics among late prehistoric farming communities that once occu- 
pied the river valleys in Indiana. He says the excavation phase of the 
course will be conducted in Hamilton County, Indiana, at the develop- 
ing archaeological heritage park near Strawtown. 

The Survey will provide transportation, meals, and lodging. 
Major field equipment and most expendable supplies will also be fur- 
nished. Students will be responsible for tuition and fees assessed for six 
semester hours of credit and personal excavation supplies. Class size is 
limited to 14 students. 

To request an application or more information, contact 
McCullough at 481-6892, or by e-mail at mccullor@ipfw.edu. 



An evening of a revolution 




About 1,500 showed up for the IPFW Student Activities Board presentation of An 
Evening with O.A.R. Saturday night. SAB was pleased with the turnout and the 
night was considered a "great" success by SAB President Erin McConaha. 



IPFW, Tower Bank create institute to help region 



A sluggish national economy and the growing 
practice ol uul-ourcing haw taken I heir toll on manu- 
facturing in the northern Indiana and western Ohm 
area. To help reverse this trend, IPFW and Tower Bank 
created the Institute ot Operations Management and 
Logistics The purpose is to help companies improve 
efficiency. 

Through special programs, the institute will 
introduce the latest in advanced manufacturing tech- 
nologies, supply chain solutions, software and con- 
cepts in logistics, Enterprise Resource Planning, 



Customer Relations Management, and oilier technolo- 
gies such as RFID and dynamic routing. 

"Recovery means more than just riding out the 
storm," says Robert Palevich, instructor in operations 
management at IPFW. 1UM and other software compa- 
nies will join Palevich at a seminar. Logistics in 
Today's Event-driven Supply Chain, on Monday, 
April 26, 8 a.m.-noon, at 1PFV". The seminar is offered 
by the IPFW Division of Continuing Studies and the 
Institute ot Operations Management and Logistics. 
For more information, tall Palevich at 481-6945. 



The Communicator 

Positions 

Students interested in applying for 
the positions of 

Editor 

Managing Editor 

Advertising Manager 

for Fall 2004 semester can now 

apply. Submit a letter of interest 

along with any pertinent resume or 

clippings to: 

Richard Papazian 

President, Board of Directors 

Walb Union 215 

2101 Coliseum Blvd. E. 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Deadline is set for Monday, April 19 



IPFW 



Campus w 
Calend 




' American 
J Cross Blood Drive, WU Ballroom, 
10 a-m- 4 p.m.; sign up in WU 1 15 or 

call (")()&lt;)') fur an apjioinlmentFor 
information, call 6609. 
University Religions Forum: 

"Choosing to Lose I motional Bujiimuv." 
WU222, noon-l:15p.m.:for 
information, call 6992. 



IS Student Organizatioi 



Dinner Series: Drummond / 
presenLs "Sunset on Winona," The 
Boathouse on Winona Lake, 6:30 p.m., 
$30 per person; for lire dinner menu and 
reservations, call Sarah at 574-55 1-5748. 
Opera Ensemble presents three one-act 
nptra-.: Iia\twn and Hasliemje; 
Gallantry; and A Hand of Bridge. 
NT Recital Hall, 7:30 p.m.. also April 10 
and 17. For information, call 6714, 
Earth Day Celebration. WU mall and 
Friends Pavilion. 1 1 a.m.-2 p.m.; for 
information, call Jess at 260-420-5494 or 
e-mailjesamosef@aol.com. 
Department of Chemistry Seminar: 
"Structurally Classirjing Protein Binding 
Sites: From Drug Targets to Antilargeis." 
Daniel S. Scm, Marquette University, 
SB 476, noon; for information call 6289 
Center for Women and Returning 
Adults free pizza party and 
entertainment for students with families. 
WU Ballroom, 6-8 p.m.; for reservations, 
e-mail renfrow.s@ipfw.edu or call 4140. 
PRAXIS (Preprofessional Assessments 
for Beginning Teachers). CM lobby. 
7.30a.m.; for infonnaiion, call 6600. 



for April 15 -21, 2004 



18 Spring Campus Visit Duy for 
Prospective Students, WU, 1-3 j 
for information, call 68 1 2. 



for 



(. -i.nt-i.TK . ■'!■ ke..llal H;il1. 7:30 p. 
iii t* irm.ii ii m, call 67 14. 

18 Jazz Ensemble. 

1 9 Saxophone and Quartet and Saxophone 
Choir. 

2 1 Symphonic Wind Ensemble. 

19 Monday Spanish Table: Come cat and 
talk with us! (Vengan a conversar y 
comer con noaotros!) WU lounge, noon; 
forinformation,call4660orc-inail 
Confortra@ipfAv.edu, 

20 Honors Program Lunch Talk: Patrick 
Ashlon presents "Burn, Baby, Bum," 
K.T G35, noon-l p.m.; for information, 
call 6924. 

Arts and Sciences Honors Banquet, 
WU Ballroom, 6 p.m.; for information, call 
6833. 

Visual Communication and Design 
Spring Senior B. F.A. Exhibition; 
continues through May 17. Opening 
reception April 23, VA Gallery, 6-8 p.m.; 
for information, call6709. 

21 Anthropology Cluh Speaker: James 
Toole, "Eastern Europe on the Eve of EU 
Membership," KT G46, noon; for 
information, call 6272. 

Dinner Series: O'Charley's presents 
■Brining Spring in the O" Way," 
O'Charley's at Jefferson Point, 6 p.m., 
$21 .95 per person; for the dinner menu 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Page 4 The Communicator 



Opinions 



April 14, 2004 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or 

abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the 

right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the 

government for a redress of grievances. 



Editorials 

Budget OK'd 



reccnl years. Forecasts 
c troubles of the state. 
Ii :j financial break with unly a 4 percentage 
Traditionally over Ihe past decade, tuition 
this year if it wasn't for Keman's plea. 
in where suite schools of higher education 
pgrades for buildings and technologies. Bui 
ing students in the long run. It's leading to 
i\ iduals arc defaulting on college and home 



private, but there can be a lug dillc-rcncc hciwcen being cheaper and 
:heapcr to suits making hundreds nl ilmiisaiuls isn'l llie same lo college gradu- 
llieir pretei-red career fields lor w.iees -li;jlitl\ .dune minimum wage, 
i. il when Indiana's covernor gives them the creen light for more liberal inereas- 
No. Read il now and sec il later: IU, I'urdue and other state schools will be cha- 
2(H)5-2(Hlh. They'll use the reasoning that thc\ will he playing catch-up from 
*l going lo be coniplclcly untrue. 

ict that we're a eounlrv hnuged down in debt, with underemployment and out- 
ig college graduates ,nnl muiimiiin w.iee workers .dike We need to find sound 



,a|Ki 



iihillsbct.il 






It could have been worse... 

uilcnt body, we're pretty pathetic. 

i 1 1. 1' hi i..iii.. wiu'ii no siudents showed up la si month !m a public hearing about tuition increases for 

..is understandable since IU doesn't affect ll'l-W's tuition hikes. 

iharmssing not one siudeni (aside tmiri sindeni leportcis .i'-ieiied to llie story) arrived lo witness a pub- 



ic/ ith a 



Hoi 



lull', V 



will be |uymg a 



i It's 



I ila|&gt;tv 



a definite il will), ilicu school officials may have a right 

we seem really lo care one way or another. 

rs it's going to be an obnoxiously larger hike, there will 



Otherwise, we're an e sample nl pallid n drone- |ust going lhiiui|;li llie motions with our classes, our finances 
our futures We don'l care loo much because we ilon'i think we tunc any kind ul conlrol. And very simply, we 
e as much control as we wish to even through our wants, needs and desires. 

Currently, we've shown we're line Willi having no conlrol whatsoever, 

Some officials might have loved thai attitude this year, fhey could have pushed through exorbitant hikes. 



Skin wins 



sreit) can't learn a lesson? 

a wrecking ball of a situation when pom producers showed up in ihe middle of the night, 
g leu scenarios, and lell even Ivloic the sheets hail been chanced It letl officials with a bad 
ind they considered law suits .in J act ions iijmiiisI || K producer- and any student involved. 
irn movie was shot on campus was embarrassing. IU\ overreaction made the one-night .stand 
on of references back lo the oriental situation And when ihe movie finally was released, it 
of the college campus videos Noi because II i students arc all that sexy, but because it was 
nly by IU officials as their anger climaxed. 

in a dorm resident is running a softcore 



website partially out of her 

The basics of the 
an aduli website - an 
bovlriend When they're asked her questions, she 



teenkeira.i 

ly lewd. I LI Dc. in ol Students Richard McKaiL spoke with her and deter- 
. McKaig noted the -chool doesn't necessarily condone the activity, but 



t being specified on the 
ids by a private, adult ci 

'l lace sanctions lor lies pan- lime job thai she does in the pmjcy of het own room. If the occupation 
\ unhealthy the school may have needed to react differently However, this isn't a big deal. This is 
1 while few are eoing to say we want out friends or family earning money this way - it's nobody's 

u -elhne He. line Babies or boxer shorts from our donn rooms via ihe Internet. 
■e, some will -ay she's sinful because she's showing her body. Some may say she's exposing herself 
ilkers •- but she's safer in her dorm than she would be at a strip bar, and it'll be easier for her to eel 
ing if she decides to work toward her decree as aggressively as she poses for the camera. 

1-Story within ;i week because IU didn't try to save face by covering e\ en body's eyes to the 
-people might be having - 




Word of the Week: 
Discrimination 



In this golden age of abundant politically correct terms and governmen- 
tally enforced non-discrimination, one might suppose ih.it si ion, such things 
as racism, sexism and homophobia would soon be figments of our barbaric 

Well, sadly, such is not the case. In fact, racism, sexism and homophobia arc 
still very much a problem. The general public makes an attempt to appear to 
accept these differences in genetics or sexual preferences. Still, there remains 
a large group ol people who simply cannot understand they are not inherent- 
ly better because of the amount of melanin in their skin, their gender, or their 
sexual preference The minorities who are ,i fleeted by this inability to tolerate 
are deserving of all the support and kindness the public can provide. 

society devotes much of its time and resources to help combat dis- 
From basic elementary lesson plans that preach anti-racism to 
Affirmative Action, the U.S. government is definite I v making --ni effort to pro- 
mote tolerance. However, I think these lesson plans and laws are a little one- 
sided: don't discriminate against African-Americans, women, or homosexu- 
als. What about the Straight White Male? 

I am a straight white female, and often find myself subject to a subtle kind 
of discrimination based on my skin color. The most blatant example to me is 
the fact that I am uncomfortable calling an African-American 'black," where- 
as must people I meet will have no problem at all calling me "while." Why not 
Caucasian- American? Since when is it a good idea to replace one double stan- 
dard with another? I sometimes feel as though I am unworthy to ask to be 
labeled as Caucasian-American - after all, my people we 
200 years. At the same time, however, I know that if true equality i- 
achieved, then we must all be on a level playing field, with the same names 

Another example of this so-called reverse discrimination happened through 
a friend of mine. She often spends time with a group of homosexual men. 
They have a habit of calling heteroses, ua I people "breeders," and use the term 
in a derogatory manner. How is that any more acceptable than a straight per- 
son using any of the homosexual slurs against them? Of course, I am person- 
ally offended by the assumption that I am less of a person because I lilse men 
instead of women. It is completely unacceptable for am one to judge anybody 
else on the basis of whom he or she wishes to be with. 

America, as a society, still has a very long way to go in terms of our habits 
toward discrimination. Of course the minorities are still at a disadvantage: the 
Straight Caucasian Male still rules supreme in the world of business and pol- 
itics. But we should not automatically assume that because he is straight, 
white and male, that he is also rich, educated and out to oppress the tower 
classes This, gentle readers, is a stereotype, and stereotypes are how racism 
functions. It is no less terrible to judge Mr. Straight Caucasian Male because 
of his skin color, gender or sexual preference than it is to judge Mrs. Gay 
African Female on that same basis. 



The 

Communicator 

Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed 
editorials or opinion columns do not necessarily reflect the views of IPFW, 
employees or its student body. A column is solely the opinion of the author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from readers. All Letters to the 
Editor and guest columns must be signed, dated and accompanied by a current 
valid address, telephone number, and class standing/major or title. Telephone 
numbers and addresses will not be printed. All submissions made vie e-mai 

ill be verified by telephone or in person. 

The editorial board reserves the right to edit all submissions for length, gram- 

lar. style and clarity. 



CAjMjPUS 



"What do you think of the 4% tuition hike?" 



1 


Rebecca 


PH 


Dwyer, 


■- v 


Senior 


mm 


I don't think 


w^ ^ 


that it's right. 




It's bad 


1 • 


enough that 




we have to 


pay what we 


do have to pay. 


Four percent 


is ridiculous. 




Rachel 
Kuzniar, 

It's not very 
good, because 
school's 
already exp&lt; 
sive enough 
it is. The people that have to 
pay for school really can't 
afford it now. 




Jenni Great, 
Sophomore: 

I think it's 
bad, because 
if you're like 
me and you 
have to pay 
for school and 
re poor, you don't have 
gh money for that stuff. 






Tim Hower, 

;e why 
they have to 
it. I just 
don't see a rea- 

for it, I 
guess. 



April 14, 2004 



Opinions 



Ghost town holds eerie forboding 
for Fort Wayne future 



The Communicator Page 5 



As I write this column I sit in 
a pale blue family room with 
ancient blue and white print cur- 
tains with walls covered — all four 
walls — in photographs. On the 
television my uncle is watching 
the Masters, and in the kitchen 
my aunts are talking at the top of 
their lungs about reading glasses 
and the best temperature to cook 
the Easter turkey. If you couldn't 
guess already, I am visiting my 
family in Lima, Ohio. 

I have tried, gentle readers, 
to concentrate and think of a topic 
for my column, now four days 
past due. On the way to my fami- 
ly's house I brought along my 
horribly expensive laptop. When 1 



large Italian-Irish family — or 
least their voices — still managed 
to find me. Even now I hear my 
young cousins playing games and 
crashing about upstairs while one 
of my aunts shoos the dog out of 
the kitchen. 

Just like every Easter, 
Christmas, and all other major 
holidays, we all traveled back to 
Grandma Casey's house. The 
house is quite small, and with as 
many people as there are in my 
family, it still manages to get too 
warm even with the April chill 
outside. I love every loud minute 
of it, and I think that I never get to 
see my family as much as I would 
like to. My mother and father 
moved from Ohio to Indiana 
when I was very young, and so 
each time we drive through the 



streets of Lima I see landmarks 
that are at once both new and 

Oil was discovered in Lima 
in 1885, and many of the build- 
ings reflect a ruined magnificence 
from a time of wealth and pros- 
perity, when how a building 
looked actually mattered. As my 
family and I drove through the 
streets on the familiar path this 
Easter morning I realized that 
Lima has the distinct feeling of a 
ghost town. Old stores with large 
glass fronts are now chain out- 
posts owned by companies like 
Goodyear; in other cases the 
buildings have been razed com- 
pletely to make way for yet anoth- 
er AutoZone, or another wing of 
St. Rita's hospital. More often, I 
see the buildings simply boarded 
up, waiting to be condemned. 
One sight that particularly struck 
me was an old movie theater 
whose ruined and tattered mar- 
quee still held hints of a ruined 
elegance — it might have been like 
the Embassy, I thought — but after 
that business failed another small 
store moved in (and failed) and 
now the only sign remaining 
reads: "Notice of Condemnation." 

My father drove us through 
the streets where he grew up and 
pointed out the houses where he 
grew up. His old neighborhood 
now lay in paint-peeling, weed- 
filled disarray like so many of the 
suburbs in Lima. I remember 
when we pulled up next to Aunt 
Rosie's house, he called it his 
"second home." When we got 
there we saw a now dilapidated, 
unlived in house. 

"It's the only one left stand- 
ing," he said in a mixture of sur- 



prise and sadness. "It was never 
like that." He pointed out the tiny 
backyard and told us about the 
parlies they would have there. 
"It always seemed bigger to 

We drove to the church 
where he went to school and 
found the building in a state of 
upkeep despite the condition of 
the neighborhood around it. 

All of the landmarks my 
father showed us were in the 
same condition. The 

Westinghouse factory where 
many of my family members 
worked stood closed as we drove 
by. An old high school with mag- 
nificent carvings boasting 
"Oratory, Musk, and Drama" also 
lies empty with more than one 
broken window. 

When 1 hear about the prob- 
lems plaguing Fort Wayne, I often 
think of the state of Lima. When 
the last family-owned grocery 
store closed in Grabill, I also 
thought of the condemned build- 
ings and broken windows. What 
will Fort Wayne look like when I 
am my father's age, I ask myself 
What will my house look like in 
50 years? As cornfields turn into 
subdivisions, it is scary to think of 
what Allen County will become 
in half a lifetime. 

I am not here to declare the 
death of Lima, however; there are 
still plenty of businesses open in 
the city. Why, I can go no more 
than a mile from my grandmoth- 
er's house this very instant and 
see what passes for prosperity: 



Police brutality: 

Just let them beat the crap out of everybody 



the. large number of immigrants 



that 



Irorr 



Someone once said, "You cannot 
fight a revolution wearing white 
dinner gloves." I think the same 
thing can be said about fighting 
crime. It's tough work, folks. I 
think it is the kind of work that 
can only be completed properly if 
we abandon all forms of ethics 
and morals. I believe that police- 
men, in order to maintain order 
and protect the properties and 
whoopee cushions of our elite, 
must be above the law. They must 
be able to dish out brutality at 
their own discretion and our soci- 
ety must stop hindering it, instead 
of discouraging it. 

When you look back through the 
years and you analyze society, one 
thing has always reigned 
supreme: anarchy. When people 
with the ability to do what they 
want without fear of repercus- 
sions, their leaders lacked the 
ability to control the masses and 
maintain their images. At first, 
they created religion, promising 
that all of those who did good and 
lived their lives well would have 
an afterlife. But too many free 
thinkers corrupted those ideas 
and broke the laws anyway. So, 
society invented the police, strong 
and angry men from in the dregs 
of society living in the deepest 
parts of the cities. They sought 
respect and enjoyed violence. 
Thus, society gave the police 
licenses to kill and the right to dis- 
pense open cans of whoop-ass, 
torture and even murder. All this 
was in the pursuit of order, of 

A prime example of early police 
brutality was the Romans' cap- 
ture, torture and execution of 
Christ. Plus, the added brutality 
towards his followers completely 
lay to waste the philosophy of 
"peace, love and 



ings. 

Then, in the mid-19th century, 
the United States, finally ridding 
itself of whatever humanism that 
remained, began establishing 
proper and official police forces. 
Maintaining order was their 
prime directive, and controlling 



Europe their task. But by 
sort of genius, the powers that be 
started recruiting many of these 
immigrants to suppress their own 
people. Finally, the police had 
found their place in society. It did 
work for a few hundred years, 
with the exception a few random 
massacres here and there (you'll 
have that). Then it went sour. 

One of the first events that taint- 
ed police brutality happened in 
the 1960s. When the Civil War 
ended, the good people of the 
South developed a social system 
that provided relative order and 
racial harmony. There was one 
minor draw back; a small fraction 
of people were denied a few 
insignihcant civil, political and 
economical rights. Basically they 
were denied everything but 
breathing, and sometimes that 
was too much. When this was 
challenged, the people responded 
with what else? Police brutality! 
Granted they utilized only fire 
hoses and Billy clubs, claiming 
that peaceful intimidation didn't 
produce the proper effect. 

An unfortunate repercussion of 
the events was that the simple it ins 
in Washington passed a few laws, 
like Miranda, ideally to limit 
police brutality With these new 
laws, the public quickly lost 
respect for the police, which was a 
direct catalyst from the outbreak 
of race riots in the late 60s. When 
the police reacted "sensibly" to 
these events, by beating the pro- 
testors senseless with large cum- 
bersome objects, there was out- 
rage. For the first time, a police- 
man had to think twice before 
delivering justice. Police finally 
had come to realize that for them 
to do their jobs, they had to be 
behind closed doors where no one 
was looking. 

This policy was actually effec- 
tive for close to 30 years, until the 
unfortunate invention of the 
handheld video camera. On 
March 31, 1991, the Los Angeles 
Police Department pulled over 
Rodney King, whom they claimed 
was "driving recklessly, and 
refusing to obey authority." 
Ignoring the proper brutality pro- 
cedure, and thinking no one was 
looking, the LAPD dished out 56 
blows of the baton and assorted 



and lighthearted kicks to Mr. 
King. Unbeknownst to them, a 
wayward soul was filming the 
entire spectacle, and instead of 
turning it over to the proper 
authorities, he turned it over to 
the media. 

Small events since then have 
helped provide a hand basket for 
police brutality to ride to hell in. 
Like the anal raping of Abner 
Louima with the handle of a 
plunger, to return him to honest 
citizenship, or when the NYPD 
fired off 41 shots into Amadou 
Diallo (who was unarmed and 
innocent, but easily could have 
been armed and guilty) just to 
make sure he was dead. 

As you can only fight fear with 
fear, we need to cherish police 
brutality before we lose it. 1 pro- 
pose an organized effort to 
encourage police brutality before 
we lose it. I propose that we make 
a display of it, so that all the evil- 
doers know what's going to hap- 
pen if they get caught. 

The first thing I want to do, and 
I don't think that I am alone in 
this, is change the word "police" 
to "pig" for good. This has been a 
long time derogatory term that 
was meant to offend. By turning 
this into a positive term, we' can 
limit the number of ways that bad 
guys can bash and defy the police 
force. Simply, "police car" will 
become "pig car" and policemen 
should be addressed as "Officer 
Pig." 

The next thing will be laws 
designed to override Miranda and 
all other laws that hinder the 
police from doing their jobs. The 
last thing will be a cabinet-level 
position and foundation called 
"Pigs In Great Places Executing 
Negligence" or "P.I.G.P.E.N." for 
short. The effects of increasing 
and forcing police brutality will 
reach far beyond communities. 
There will be no more strikes, no 
more demonstrations of any kind 
really, no more freedom of speech, 
religion or press fear will obliter- 
ate all social, racial and political 
boundaries. It will make us better 
citizens because we will work as a 
collective, as a learn. 

Anytime I see a police car, I get 
a sale feeling knowing that at any 
moment I can be pulled over, 
drug out of my car and beaten to 
death with big !@#S%&amp;* sticks. 



'Real' college experience not 
quite what was expected 



pus. For us, walking from the 
Fine Arts building to Kettler 
takes, on a bad day. 15 minutes 
After about 30 minutes, we'd 
gone a couple of blocks and gave 
up, hitching a ride on the f&gt;ee 
trolley system. Whoever came up 
with that system is a genius. I can 
imagine it saves a lot of people 
wearing out a lot of shoes, as they 
have to cross campus on their 
daily commute. However, even 
this blessing was short lived as 
we realized that even taking the 
trolley, we were at the mercy of 
the schedule. That meant we 
could only take it when it came 
and only go where it went. So we 
found the spot closest to our next 
destination and once again, we 

Needless to say, the two- 
hour drive back to Fort Wayne 
was well-received on our sore 

People complain about our 
campus, how no one ever takes 
the time to get to know anyone 
else and how no one takes the 
time to talk to one another. 
Walking across Purdue's campus, 
I quickly realized exactly how 
many people I know here at 
IPFW. Even if it's just from one of 
my classes, I realized that I know 
more people here at IPFW than I 
would ever know down at 
Purdue. 

People often talk about 
IPFW's Greek System and its 
exclusivity. Walking and driving 
through Purdue, I saw more dif- 
ferent Greeks than I thought 



only awake, I was in my car. 

Now this isn't some episode 
of sleepwalking, I was going to 
Purdue, all for the sake of news. 

Now, I've been a student 
here at IPFW since 2001 and 
much like the rest of you, I have 
often felt the pangs of "campus 
envy." There have been times 
when I couldn't escape from peo- 
ple I know, or when I've driven 
the half an hour back home at 12 
. because I had been working 



Well, if you can't have it all the 
time, the next best thing is to visit 
it and experience it when you 

So there we were, a carload 

of Communicator staffers, head- 
ing off into the west, towards the 
mystical land of "real college." 

Be careful of what you wish 
for. The maze of one-way streets 
and random dead-ends caused us 
to be about 20 minutes late to our 
meeting. After we finally found 
the building in which the meeting 
was located, we had to find a 
parking spot. Never again will I 
complain about having to find a 
spot on our campus. Many of us 
complain and whine about the 
parking situation, but you don't 
know what it's like until you 
have to park three or four blocks 
away, at a meter that charges 
$0.25 for a mere 15 minutes. 

So we hoof it to the building 
where this meeting is taking 
place. The Stewart Center is 
approximately the size of about, 
well, maybe two or three Walb 
Unions, and naturally, there are 
large, helpful maps. Not really — 
we had to ask someone working 
at the Newsstand. Yes, you read 
correctly, the Newsstand, It" was 
like a mini 7-11 located in the 
Stewart Center, but even with the 
assistance of the cashier we were 
still confused as to where our 
next stop was after the meeting. 

Directions in hand, we head- 
ed off. About 10 minutes later, 
we discovered that we were 
heading in the completely oppo- 
site direction. In the meantime, 
we found a parking garage for 
visitors, so we pulled into a 
garage strikingly familiar to the 
Walb garage. As we drove up 
level after level, we sat in 
stunned silence, as level after 
level was nearly identical to our 
garage here. Except at IPFW, we 
don't have to get a ticket to park 
in our garage. A full day parking 
costs $10.00. Never again will I 
take for granted driving ticket- 
free into one of our garages. 

After that, we were on foot, 
still lost and confused. We head- 
ed off in what we thought was 
the right direction, and we found 
our next location. Next stop on 
the agenda, location: across cam- 



nted 



the 






through t-shir 
houses, and the Greek newsletter. 
All four of the organizations 
on our campus are represented 
down on the Purdue campus, and 
after seeing the houses of these 
organizations, there should be no 
complaints about the exclusivity 
of the Greek suites. The open 



stately brick houses, .sometimes 
two to three stories tall, 

Once my feet were back on 
IPFW soil, I felt my whole body 



that made me appreciate this 
campus a lot more than I did a 
mere 24 hours before. The eleva- 
tor in Walb that takes forever to 
shut, driving through the parking 
lot and seeing the cars of people I 
know, and running into friends 
walking through campus all 
meant a lot more to me than I 
ever thought they would. 

Visiting the "real campus" 
was nice, and it was a day full of 
memories that I'll not soon forget. 
I encourage you to visit a big 
campus sometime during your 
years here at IPFW, regardless of 
whether or not you plan to trans- 
fer. 



DO YOU HAVE AN OPINION ABOUT 
SOMETHING IN THE COMMUNICATOR? 

Make your voice heard. 

Submit a Letter to the Editor 

and let everybody know 

what you think. 

Letters to the Editor can be up to seven hundred words 
in length. Submit them directly to The Communicator, 
Suite 215 in the Walb Student Union, or email them to 
stupaper@ipfw.edu. Remember to include your name, 
phone number, and your email address (optional.) This 
information is needed solely for verification purposes: 
only your name will be printed in the paper. 



Page 6 The Communicator 

Former IPF 

Kim Metzger, copy editor at 



A d &amp;E 

■ arts and entertainment- 



April 14, 2004 



W student writes super hero novel 

The Communicator in 1983, releases first novel 'Skye Sparkler' about female heroine 



Writing novel;, about comic books is 
especially hard to do, says Metzger. There's 
a gre.it market lor already-established super- 
heroes like Superman and \-men But woe to 
the person who invents a new one. 
Superheroes are seen by publishers as just 
for kids, although in actuality, most readers 
haired, pre-teen an d collectors ol eomlt books are adults 
per, anlndiana {given that the average price (or a comic is 
ied her up and J3, with some prices being much higher) 
il just writing a Metzger graduated from IU in 1979 and 

book published, moved to Nevada to teach seventh and 
t story. (Pardon eighth grades He taught for nine months, 
but says, "(I) discovered 1 really didn't have 
the patience needed for that job-" 

In 1983, Metzger was copy editor for 

The Communicator. He began a column for 

it called "Four-Color Comments" about 

;. Says Metzger, "It may not have been 



becoming the assistant for CBG. He wore 
many hats at Comics Buyer's Guide. He 
wrote columns, edited copy, measured the 
amount of editorial and advertisement space 
in each issue, filled in for editors when they 
were on vacation, and did many other jobs. 
But Metzger, like many people who 
leave home to pursue careers, became very 



"ith the most widely 



I I hads 



liry fob* And perhaps, both have a deep- 
Iflfed need t" escape Hie mundane aspects 
i'\ i-i \i\,\\ life 

Born in September 1953, Kim Metzger 






ite the difficulty in getting 
rious dilemma for many 
r anyone interested in the 



_.__ :ollect- 

comks newspaper, tliev &lt; hanged the name 
to Comics Buyer's Guide. Thev now planned 
to print editorials every week, so they need- 
ed feature story writers Met/ger submitted 
several examples of his columns, and his 
work was accepted. Metzger left The 
I iminniHiiiitor and traveled to Wisconsin, 



to have severe outbreaks of 
depression/' he says. He was diagnosed 
with chronic depression, and believes that he 
may have also had chronic fatigue syndrome 
at that time. He eventually returned to his 
hometown, Columbia City. 

"I think part of my troubles turned out 
to be just plain homesickness," he reflects. 
Ten years ago, he moved to Fort Wayne, 
where he works and writes. 

"Skye Sparkler" was originally a new 
version of Supergirl. The Supergirl with 
whom must people are familiar was in the 
1984 movie and was "killed off" in the 
comics the following year. Metzger knew 



character using the same name to hold 
the trademark. 

So he tried writing the new ver 
Old Car Unfortunately, says Metzger, "a popul. 



The 



given first dibs on a 

new Supergirl." So Metzger kept the work he 
had done, and renamed his character Skye 
Sparkler. 

Metzger says he's gotten "near unani- 
iiunh praise' from people who have read his 
novel. But one young woman, who had been 



makers." Metzger jokes, "I suspect that's 
military training designed to keep women 
from wanting to rise too high in the ranks, 
but that's just a theory." 

Metzger says, "As for writing, the 
biggest piece of advice I can give is to avoid 
the temptations that keep you from writing! 
Over the years, I've succumbed too much to 
the allure of television, the internet, and 
other distractions. You can enjoy those 
things but after writing is done for the day. I 
managed to write Skye Sparklet 



I first 

draft finished. I'm forcing myself to do this 
again and hopefully will have a number of 
things done by this time next year," Metzger 
says that he is about to begin work on sever- 
al projects, including .1 book of short stories. 

He feels that Fort Wayne is as good a 
place as any to be a writer. 

"Writing is a profession that can be 
done anywhere," he says. "Stephen King 
lives in Maine. John Grisham is in 
Mississippi. Anne Rice is in New Orleans, 
and Sue Grafton and Danielle Steele are both 
in California... It all comes down to talent." 

Metzger says that the best way to obtain 
a copy of "Skye Sparkler" is to go to a comic 
book shop or a bookstore that uses Cold Cut 
Comic Distribution. A manager will need to 
order it. He emphasizes to make sure it's 
ordered from Imprint (also known as 
Booksurge) and not another company. To e 
mail Metzger, write 



Have a serious interest in journalism? 

The 2004-2005 staffing of 
The Communicator takes place soon. 

StopbyWalb215 

and get involved. 



INVESTING ISN'T ROCKET SCIENCE. 

WHICH EXPLAINS WHY WE HELP 
SO MANY ROCKET SCIENTISTS. 



Find out more about TIAA-CREF IRAs 

and our other tax-smart financial solutions 






Well, summer is fast approaching, and with the hot weather comes a slew of summer 
releases at the local movie theatre Every year all of the magazines release an article or two 
about the "huge summer blockbusters" that are going to "rip box office records to shreds." 
And this year is no different; I recently read an article in Premiere magazine touting this 
summer's arrivals, even going as far as to predict their box office totals. Never mind how 
pathetic it is that a movie is based on its money-making 
quality of the film (that's a whole other article). What ti 
summer article sucks on how awesome the upcoming si 
the films (which rarely live up to the hype) after summer 
the following is mv for.i\ into the game of predicting 



bilities as opposed to, say, the 
ne is the fact that every pre- 
r is going to be, only to bash 
:g their "fall preview." Well, 
but hopefully a bit different 



from what the likes ol Entertainment Weekl\ has to otter. Instead ol crowning the yet to be 
released films as the second coming of "Titanic," I'm going to be honest about which ones 
will, shall we say, sink or swim. 

"Spider Man 2," opening July 2, is expected to be the summer's biggest release. I see 
this as being true, as long as director Sam Raimi sticks with what works. "Spiderman" was 
so fun because it didn't take itself seriously, instead playing up the camp\ cheesiness of it 
all. Onecanonh hope that the sequel will have more money quotes, such as the "With great 
power comes great responsibility" line. I'm a little hesitant ,i| the bad guv. Doctor Octopus. 
Am I the only one who thinks that Venom would be the perfect villain to bring to the big 
screen? Hopefully the special effects will be better this time around I forgave the building- 
jumping scenes for their computer game-like looks, but I don't think I'll be so kind if I see 
the same mistake- in the second one. 

"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," opening June 4th, is the third installment 
of the Harry Potter -cries, and will no doubt bring in the big bucks not based on how good 
it is, but rather because kids will flock to anything with the name "Potter" attached. The 
first two films, "Sorcerer's Stone" and "Chamber of Secrets" were directed by Chris 
Columbus of "Home Alone" fame. Now taking over is "Y Tu Mama Tambien" director 
Alfonso Cuaron. I really, really, really wish I could bash the shit out of this "Harry Potter" 
stuff, because that's what I've been doing since they first appeared. But the thing is, I bet 
they're pretty good. Its not often you have a 6 year old and a 40 year old read the same 
book, but that happens with this 'Potter' stuff. Unfortunately, I've been bashing Harry for 
so long, if I go back on my word of despising it, I will appear to be a traitor to my fellow, 
dosed-minded "Harry Haters." So, for the record, I hope this movie sucks. 

"Shrek 2," opening May 21, will be yet another sequel to hit the screens this summer. 
I really hope this movie has the same humor and energy of the first, which began with a 
bang by having Shrek wipe his ass with a page out of a fairy tale book. I find it difficult to 
believe this sequel will have the same magic as the first. The first "Shrek" was a pleasure 
because it took a stab at all the old fairy tales with a biting humor but at the same time pre- 
senting a loveable story. I worry that since that ground has been covered, all "Shrek 2" will 
be is another kids movie. Take for instance Mike Myers' other gold mine, "Austin Powers." 
It began as an excellent spoof of spy films, but now its just a slapstick franchise that repeats 
jokes. Let's hope the big green ogre doesn't go down that same path. 



"The Terminal starring Tom Hanks and Catherine Zeta-Joi 

The film has Hanks trapped in |FK airport where things worthy of a n 

while falling in love with Catherine Zeta-Jones. I love Hanks, and \ 

i hot Zeta-Jones is. I'm not so worried how the public will n 



;t to open June 18th. 
ivie happens, all the 
; all know just how 
) the airport setting; 



9-11 enough where we cm stand it without tailing it un-American. 
t bothers me is the untrue stereotypes supported by this movie All flight attendants 
ayed in movies are drop dead gorgeous, yet of all the plane rides I've ever taken, not 
have the flight attendants lived up to the stereotype. 

'Tg Brad Pitt and Orlando bloom, will open May 14. I hope this movie just 

Gladiator" and Russell Crowe kicked so much ass, I have been absolute- 

)vies set during this time period brad Pitt could use the hit, and Bloom 

Lord of the Rings" and "Pirates of the Caribbean." Bloom could have 



kills. Ever sini 
ly in love with 
has been hot 



used some beeling up though, he look- like a little kid wearing his father's 
D he's got going on There are also stars from the old days making an appearance. Peter 




"The Collateral," starring Tom Cruise, opens August 6, Now, I love Tom Cruise, and 
have always been a huge fan of the guy from way hack in "Top Gun," all the way up to 
"Jerry Maguire." Cruise has been at the bottom of the barrel in the media lately, considering 
Cruise-bashing is the food of choice since his split with Nicole Kidman and more recently, 
from his girlfriend of three years, Penelope Cruz (now that you're free, Penny, give me a 
call). With Cruise as the bad guy, and with grey hair, this movie is going to be a tough sell. 

"I, Robot," starring Will Smith as a robot trying to save the world in 2036, opens July 
16. This movie sounds a bit like "A.l" the Steven Spielherg/Slanle\ Kubrick film that tanked 
at the box office. Smith is a good sell, but I can't see audiences coming out in droves to see 
this film. Perhaps he should call upon the same idiots who bought any of his albums to buy 



stly li 

ind comic book n 
the quality films are released. 



t your thing, sit back and relax until fall when 



April 14, 2004 



arts and entertainment- 



The Communicator Page 7 



Get a friendly connection with Friendster 



They say it's not what you 
know, but whom you know that 
matters. For some people, making 
connections is easier said than done. 
Finding a friend of a friend who 
knows someone is a concept few 
have the methods to accomplish. 

Enter the Internet age. It was 
only a matter of time before some- 
one utilized the sheer capacity of 
the Internet to create a system that 
not only gathered members, but 
als-o connected them to one another 
through shared affiliations, past 
experiences, and expertise. Once 
someone is a member and fills out a 
personal profile (filling out as much 
or as little as they wish other people 
to know) they have the chance to 
invite all of their friends to join the 
service as well. These friends 
become members of the system and 
then the connections are created. 

Friendster, one of the many dif- 
ferent networking communities 
available, connects members, free of 
charge, through their friends, to 
other members that could be of 
interest. Now this isn't a dating 
site, although that is an available 
option to it's members, but also a 



business networking tool; a method 
for connecting to people that can 
assist you in your needs, and just a 
way to make friends. There are 
people that join Friendster with the 
hopes that they will meet someone 
through their friends and their 
friends' friends. Meeting people 
that you "know" is by far a safer 
alternative than meeting random 
strangers through any other typical 

Another great method of judg- 
ing the character of the people you 
happen to meet through Friendster 
is oy reading their "testimonials." 
Their friends, and other acquain- 
tances, have the opportunity to put 
their own two cents about the peo- 
ple in question. Say you have a ran- 
dom Joe who wants to meet a girl, 
fiossibly to date, or even just as 
riends. Joe's ex-girlfriends and 
other friends have the opportunity 
to tell you a little more about Joe, 
things that perhaps he wouldn't 
have the chance or opportunity to 
put in his profile. Things such as 
"great dancer, or so he thinks, "great 
sense of humor, keeps me laughing 
for hours on end" or "tough on the 
outside, teddy bear on the i 



with the people that you happen to 
have connections with. A message 
board accessible to only those peo- 
ple within your "personal network" 
is a great way to get out party invi- 
tations, inquiries or announcements 
to your group of friends without 
having to send the email to 20 dif- 
ferent people. 

A message center functions as 
a type of inter-sen.' ice email system, 
allowing not only people within 
your personal network of connec- 
tions, Dut anyone on the service to 
send you messages without expos- 
ing your real email address. A 
great way to approach people not 
only that perhaps have caught vour 
eye as a possible date, but to contact 
people that perhaps have the busi- 



matter of time fors 

a way for them to be connected. 

Joining Friendster, and some of the 



up. Maybe the r 
time you're checking your email, 

you could take a second to do some- 
thing that could possibly help you 
out greatly in the long run. 



1 1 . Friend 

heir annoying rhemi 
after it! 

couldn't be n moment too soon. It should 
ifter o milk 

longer friends bu 
bunch of middle aged people 
(including Oprah and practii ill m 

■ i- i . .. i : ■ !..'■.■ I '■■ 






14 through April 17 at 7:30 p.m. Director Allen Saunders 
hns assembled four delightful evenings comprised of three 
complete one-act operas, complete with staging, costumes 
and choreography. Performances will be held on April 14, 
15, 16, 17 at 7:30 p.m. in Neff Recital Hall. Admission for 
IPFW students is free. Tickets are sold at the door and are 
$4 for adults, $3 for seniors and $1 for all other students. 
For more information, call the Department of Music, at 260- 
481-6714. 



Neff Recital Hall. The Student Ensemble Series fea- 
tures an exciting showcase of student talent and the newly 
formed Saxophone Choir, comprised of students and mem- 
bers of the community. The concert begins at 7:30 p.m. on 
Monday, April 19 at 7:30 p.m. In Neff Recital Hall. 
Admission for IPFW students with ID Is free, $4 for adults, 
$3 for seniors and $1 for all other students. For more Infor- 
mation, call the Department of Music, at 260-481-6714. 

The 2004 Biennial will take place at the Fort Wayne Museum 
of Art from June 5 to Aug. 15. The event will showcase a 
selection of some of the best and most innovative art being 
created in America's heartland. Not only Indiana artists are 
included, but artists from all over the Midwest. 

A road trip to Chicago is being sponsored by the Fort 
Wayne Museum of Art Articulates. The trip will take place 
Saturday, June 12, at a cost of $35 per person. While In 
Chicago, visitors will see the finest art the Windy City has to 
offer. 

The Nature Conservancy 

Conservation Conversation 

22. A panel will discuss the state of Indiana's natural 

resources and what they could look like in the future. A 

photography exhibition, "Preserving Place: Reflections of 



If you are a non-profit organization and you would like to 
have your news appear in the Community Calendar, please 
contact Kurtis Meyers, A&amp;E Editor, at the Communicator, at 
(260)481-6584 or at www.stupaper.ipfw.edu. 




DON'T MISS OUT! 
SPACE IS STILL AVAILABLE BUT GOING FAST! 



the Tl£W standard 
In student living 




amenities 



' Individual Housing Agreements 
1 Furnished Bedroom 
' Furnished Living Room 
' Fully Equipped Kitchen 
1 Dining Area with Chairs 

1 High-speed Internet and Cable Television Service 
1 Community Center 
1 Social Lounge with Big Screen Television 
' 24-Hour Laundry Facilities 
1 Fitness Center 
' Basketball Sport Court 
• Computer Learning Center/Cyber Lounge 
' On-site Community Assistant Staff 
' On-site Management and Maintenance 
' Housing for IPFW Students including Allen 
County Residents 

OPENING FALL 2004! 



IPFW 
Student 
Housing 



INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

Kettler Hall G98F • 2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, Indiana 46805 
www.IPFWstudehthousing.com • email: info@IPFWstudenthousing.com 

PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY AMERICAN CAMPUS COMMUNITIES 



HDUSING FOR IPFW STU 



April 14, 2004 



Sports 



The Communicator Page 9 




Genius-Insanity III 



It's that time once again. 
So many things are wrong, but so 
many are oh-so-right in sports. 
Some may even consider some 
things genius, while the others, 
they are just plain insane. 

Genius: Phil Mickelson, finally a 



Masters champion 

Insanity: Early round leader Justin 
Rose shooting a third round 81 

Genius: Jameer Nelson, Wooden 
Award Winner 

Intimity: Chri&gt; Duhon &lt;md Emeka 
Okafor, Wooden Award Rejects 

Genius: Eli Manning going num- 
ber one in the upcoming NFL 
Draft 



Insanity: The Chargers keying the 



Genius: LeBron James and 
Carmelo Anthony, Co-Rookies of 
the Year 

Insanity: Darko Milicics playing time 

Genius: Baseball season back in 
full swing 

Insanity: Vie fact tluit nobody really 



Genius: The four-way battle for 
first in the NBA West 

Insanity The Celtics and the Kmcks 
making the playoff*, both below .500 

Genius: High school basketball 
player Shaun Livingston heading 
to Duke 

Insanity: 6'Q' Sebastian Telfair being 
eonsidered the best high school basket- 
ball I'layei in the nation but heading 
to college to play 



Insanity: IPFW Baseball hampered 
with a 14-20 record (at press time), 
mostly due to tough rood losses 

Genius: Kevin Gamett, finally 
receiving MVP notice 

Insanity. Tim Duncan will mi'bal'ly 
still jji-f the award 

Genius: The NHL Playoffs, once 
again providing great moments 

Insanity: The Anaheim Mighty 
Ducks, oneyear removed from a final 
appearance, spending the playoffs at 

Genius: Dale Earnhardt Jr. finally 
living up to his hype on the 
NASCAR Ncxtel Cup Series 
Insanity: Drivers like Rusty Wallace, 
Hill lilhot and Terry Labonte not real- 
izing that they are just too old 

Genius: 14-year-old soccer sensa- 
tion Freddy Adu 

Insanity: The fact that at 14, he hns 
more money than many of us will 



Genius: The Memphis Grizzlies 
actually making the NBA 
Playoffs 

Insanity: The fuel that they are still 
called the Grizzlies in Memphis 

Genius: UConn Huskies basket- 
ball. 

Insanity: The fad that 127 other 
teams couldn't manage to beat UConn 
Onet m cither tournament 

Genius: The Fort Wayne 
Freedom's ability to draw some 
of the largest crowds in the NIFL. 

Insanity: The fact thai they -.till are 
only 2-2, not being aboul to Ivat the 
league's topdogs 

Genius: IPFW Volleyball in good 
in the MIVA regu- 



hisanih/: Mall Zbyszcwski leading 
the nation in points and kills per 
game, but still with no national play- 
er of the week honors 



Rain shortens Greg Palmer Classic 

IPFW's Chad Wilson was tied for sixth place after the first round of the Greg 
Palmer Classic as of April 12. 

Rain and dreary weather forced the second round to be shortened. 
Morehead State and Murray State both shut ten over par scores of 298 and are 
tied for the lead after the first round of the event being played April 12-13 at Eagle 
t twelfth place. 

s will play 18 holes on April 13. 

Soccer 
continued from Page 10 



"We are excited b\ the st^nmj; of these voting men, said Met.inkiewicz. "Having 
played on the same 1SFA team, they already have a good understanding of the way each 
plays.. Chas is a creative player with excellent vision and touch. ..Adam will provide us 
with more speed and aggression up front. He also has an eye for the goal." 

Evan Coss from Battle Creek, Michigan, Lakeview High School 

Coss was a First-Team All-State Selection at Lakeview High School. 

"Evan is a big, strong attacking player, who runs at players well with the ball," 
according toStefankiewicz. "We hope that lie will contribute significant I y during his fresh- 
man year with the program." 

Drew Lear from Kendallville, IN, East Noble High School 

Lear, a News-Sentinel All-Star and Indiana ODP selection, will bring speed, ath- 
leticism and an understanding of the game to IPFW. 

"His attributes will give him a great opportunity to break into the line-up his fresh- 
man year," Stefankiewicz said. 



The Communicator 

Positions 

Students interested in applying for 
the positions of 



Editor 

Managing Editor 

Advertising Manager 

for Fall 2004 semester can now 

apply. Submit a letter of interest 

along with any pertinent resume or 

clippings to: 

Richard Papazian 

President, Board of Directors 

Walb Union 215 

2101 Coliseum Blvd. E. 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Deadline is set for Monday, April 19 



Golf Scoreboard 
Team results from Western Illniois Invitational - April 10 

Place Name Rl R2 R3 Final 

1 St. Ambrose 300 292 300 892 

2 Oakland 297 296 302 895 

3 Western Illinois C. 289 301 311 904 

4 IUPUI 305 305 301 911 

5 Western Illinois U. 305 301310 916 

6 Wise. Green Bay 306 295 320 921 

7 UMKC 297 307 318 922 
Indiana Hills C.C. 308 298 318 924 
Bradley 316 301 309 926 

10 John A. Logan 311 305 324 940 

11 Illinois Central 323 307 320 950 

12 Monmouth 312 314 338 964 

13 IPFW 318 320 332 970 

14 Black Hawk 332 317 327 976 

15 Parkland 328 326 324 978 

16 Illinois Valley C.C. 321 323 340 984 

17 South East C.C. 354 340 351 1045 



Support IPFW 
Athletics 

/isit wwwjpfw.edu/athletics 

for schedules and team 
roster information 



Public Re lations/Marketing Internship 



If you are an enthusiastic junior or senior wishing to gain 
professional experience and want to make money, this internship 
may be right for you. Indiana Business College is seeking an 
intern with excellent public speaking sk Is to work with area high 
schools Candidates should be available 2-3 full days per week, 
have reliable transportation, an enthusiastic attitude, and public 
speaking experience. 

Please email your resume to Christy Watts at 
Christy.Watts@ibcschools.edu 
or fax to 317-264-5640 to apply. 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



United Art and Education^ 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



JOIN OUR WAREHOUSE TEAM &amp; WORK IN A FRIENDLY ENVIRONMENT. 
I W»t*fc part-tine new/full-time In the svnmer 

I DvfiiS DIIjW* tritr fiffillg &lt; includes some moderate lifting up to 70 lbs ) 



I Sttartwg at $7.5* 

Contact Tom: 
(260) 478-1121 Monday- Friday 



r^JKJnitecK^ 

| Art and Education | 

4413 Airport Expressway 



Page 10 The Communicator 



Sports 



April 14, 2004 



Three's company for Fowler 



Third baseman hits three home runs and 
drives in seven runs in Mastodon victory 



By Staff and IPFW News Services 

Mastodons' third baseman Tyler Fowler 
drilled three home runs and knocked in 
seven runs, as IPFW hit their way past the 
University of Toledo 15-6, April 6 at 
M,isiddons Field. 

Fowler started his home run barrage in 
the second inning with a two-run shut to left 
field. In the fourth. Fowler ripped a two-run 
shol to left center, and In top it off, in I lie fifth 
he drilled a three-run blast to left. All in all, 
three-for-four on the day with three runs 



with a 2-0 lead courtesy of a two-run home 
run by designated hitter John Torres. 

Trailing 3-0 in the fourth inning, IPFW 
used the longball to gel back into it. Zach 
Walton drilled a two-run shot of his own, 
and the Mastodons tacked on another in the 
inning to tie it at three. 



the day, with t 



Zachary in the sixth, went two for two and 

All this offense complemented the 

E itching of sophomore starter Keegan 
aycock, who gol his lirsl win of the season 
Laycock wenl '&lt; 2/3 innings, giving up five 
earned runs. He struck out three. 

Adam Ferris came on in the sixth to 
shut down Toledo the resl of Ihe way Ferris 
didn't allow a hit in 2 1/3 innings and struck 

Fifteen runs on 16 hits is the Mastodons 
biggest offensive output of the year. 

However, just a day afler exploding for 
15 runs on 16 hits, IPFW was locked down 
by six different Michigan State pitchers. 

The Mastodons only managed two hits, 
ami Mulligan Siale pounded out 16 hits of 
their own, on the way to a 12-1 win at Kobs 
Stadium at the Spartan campus. 

The win was the Spartan's tenth 
straight, equalling their largest winning 
streak since 1990. 

MSU (14-111] broke open the garni 1 with 



In the sixth, Head Coach Billy Gernon 

called on Brandon Armstrong to pinch-hit 
with two outs in the inning, and Armstrong 
came through in the chili h. I le ripped a solo 
shot to right, giving IPFW a 4-3 lead. 

But, the 'Dons couldn't make the lead 
stick. Chicago Stale scored four runs in the 

seven runs seventh inning to win 7-4. 

batted in. In game two, Chicago Stale jumped out 

David to a 1-0 lead after three innings, but in the 
Zachary and bottom of that inning, IPFW played some 
"~™ Brett Alwine fundamentally sound "small-ball.' 

also got into Coach Gernon called for three suicide 

,; Ihe 39(1 fool mark squeezes in a row, and Caleb Smith, Ryan 
lo shots. Zachary 's Sleinb.uh and Armstrong each laid dou n 
Ihe third; Alwine's perfect bunts. Smith and Steinbach both 
in || u . ,.|,-|,th rea. heel base After the third, IPFW led 5-1. 

nl three for five on CSU (2-28) got single runs in the fourth, 

:ored. fifth, an ^ seventh but couldn't push the 

;, who came on for tying run across. 

nt two for two and Junior starter David Zachary go! the 

win, his fourth of the season. He went the 
distance, giving up three earned 



I innmg 
lost ot tl 



Koerber did most of the damage with a 
three-run homer lo let! center. Koerber was 

■ day. 

their lone run in the 5th 

I Hagedorn RBI singlt 



IPFW 



day 



The Mastodons returned home the next 

to take on Chicago State, where the 
is split a doubleheader. Chicago State 
ed in the seventh inning of game one to 

7-4, while IPFW took the nightcap 54. 

The Cougars opened the first game 



four hits. He struck out five and walked 
three. 

After jumping all over the University of 
Detroit Mercy in game one of their double- 
header April 10 at Mastodons Field, IPFW 
gave one away in game two, to split the twin 

The Mastodons pounded out 16 hits in 
the 1 opening game, lo win going away 14-1. 
The Mastodons chased Titans' starter Keith 
Aslracickas after only 2/3 of an inning. The 
'Dons scored six limes in the firsl inning, 
highlighted bv a Ihree-run bomb by Tyler 
Fowler. It was Fowler's fourth home run in 
the last four games. 

But, the hitting star, by far, in game one 
was second baseman hrell Alwine. Alwine 
went three for four, with six runs batted in, 
including a three-run shot of his own in the 
fifth inning. 

the 
i the 

Senior starter Casey Rohan went the 
distance for his third win of the season. He 
gave up one run, on seven hits, and struck 

In game two, IPFW had a 2-0 lead after 
five innings, but in the top of the sixth, it fell 
apart Titans first baseman Tim Polev drilled 
a two-run homer, and IPFW committed four 
errors in UDM's four-run sixth inning. 

In the bottom of the frame, IPFW got 




IPFW third baseman Tyler Fowler is 
plate after one of his three homeruns 



they would 

lv, 
seven innings of three-hit ball foi 

Wrapping up their seventh game in five 
day feat, the Mastodons continued to hit the 
longhair Detroit Mercy again felt the wrath 
of the homerun. 

Armstrong jacked a three-run shot in 
the Mastodons' 8-3 victory. 

IPFW, now 14-20, got on the board in 
the second inning, courtesy of a wild pilch, 
and an RBI single by Smith 

For all intents and purposes, the 
Mastodons put the game away in the third 



igratulated as he steps on home- 
against Toledo. IPFW won 15-6. 

inning. Left fielder Kv.in Keena led off with a 
single and scored on a double by Alwine. 

Alwine scored on an RBI triple by right 
fielder Zach Walton. 

Walton was chased home by an RBI sin- 
gle from Armstrong. At the end of three, it 



RBI and two runs scored. 

Alwine, Walton, and Steinbach each 
had two-hit games. 

Keegan Laycock had great command of 
his stuff, giving up three runs on four hits, 
while striking out seven, for the win. 




IPFW freshman 
left-side hitter 
Josh Collins 
reacts to a ball 
during a game 
earlier this sea- 
son. Collins 
had career night 
with 20 kills 
and seven digs 
against Ohio 
State on April 
10. The 

Mastodons lost 



Mastodon's men's soccer squad 
announces 2004 recruiting class 



, do 



: game j 



i sets. 



By IPFW News Services 

The IPFW men's soccer team 
has announced its recruiting class for 
the 2004 season. 

Some of the stand-out recruits 
that Head Coach Terry Stefankiewicz 
will be bringing into the Mastodons' 
program include: 

Michael Knitter from Fort 
Wayne, Carroll High School. 

Knitter, a high school All- 
American goalkeeper, will challenge 
for the starting position immediately. 

"We are exceptionally happy 
to have Michael," Stefankiewicz said, 
the first high school A1I- 
to sign at IPFW. He brings a 



great athleticism, size, and technical 
ability to the position, and he probably 
has the best distribution of any goal- 
keeper we have ever had here at 
IPFW." 

Knitter follows in the footsteps 
of his brothers Tim and Brian, who 
both played and were captains for the 
Mastodons. 

Chas Parry-Bolton from 
England, Bolton School 

Adam Beckett from Reading, 
England, Bradfield College 

Parry-Bolton and Beckett 
played together on the England 
Independent Schools team. 

Continue "Soccer" on Page 9 



.»**». Golf takes 13th of 18 at WIU 



Buckeyes hold off Mastodons 
in key conference matchup 



By IPFW News Services 



By IPFW News Services 



The Buckeyes (IS-S, 



11-3) won by the 
scores of 23-30, 32- 
30, 30-24, 27-30, and 
15-7. 

The Mastodons 
(13-9, 11-4) wasted a 
light from 



Matt Zbyszewski also registered 20 kills ti 



Mitch Dreisbach also registered double- 
figure kills with 13. 

Ohio State also had three players in dou- 
ble-figure kills, led by sophomore outside hitter 
Andy Cole with 20 kills and 11 digs. 



Western Illinois University on April 10. 
St. Ambrose University was 
the winner of the event, posting scores 
of 300, 292, 300 for a 54 hole total of 
892. That was three strokes better than 
Oakland University. 



Freshman Chad Wilson fired 
rounds of 78, 81, and 80 to finished tied 
for 47th with teammate Andy 
Campbell who shot 80, 77, 82-239. 

Brian Stuard of Oakland was 
the tournament medalist with rounds 
of 70, 68, and 72-210. That was eight 
strokes better than Joe Demory of St. 



(93.0 to 81.0). 

IPFW will take to the road the weekend of 
April 17 and IK to plav their final two regular sea- 



Scoreboard 






IPFW results from Western Illnio 


s invitational 


- April 10 


PlaceName Rl 


R2 


R3 


Final 


47t Chad Wilson 78 


80 


81 


239 


47t Andy Campbell 80 


77 


82 


239 


67t Patrick Florea 82 


82 


85 


249 


70t Randy Smith 78 


87 


85 


250 


72t Matt Fry 86 


81 


84 


251 



