
—Quote of 

the Week- 

M,,i,l 



Lady Volleydons beat St. Joseph and 

Kentucky at Great Lakes Valley 

Conference Page 6 

Free speech threatened on campuses? Page 5 



Smoking, voting, IBM, Students' Government, etc Page 2 &amp; 3 



The Communicator 



vol. xxn, ISSUE 6 



Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne 



Writers wanted 



Infographs "XS 



UFO SIGHTING 

The Universal Fantasy Organi- 



McCarthy Vs. 
Hollywood 

"The Hollywood Ten," a doc- 



•Speed-The-Plow," and "Baby 
are open to everyone. For more 



Studies will occur at IFFW i 



Grad School Survival 



Surviving Graduate School" 



Campus harassment cases investigated 




Support group 


rmp1cMy e and ToMy bStadtta a* of'tnTbutly's M°g, and'l'do^'w^n! 


The Returning Adult Support 




Jroup is meeting each Wednes- 








Uemorial Union Room G2S. 


if we are not completely behind him Street to the Merrill Lynch building, 






Prayer for peace 


















lions of dollars and potentially tens of Lambert said it was a spontaneous 










Walb Memorial Union Room 21- 


mulli-nauonal mega-corporations and the gulf conflict. 


lri.it&gt; studies 


Brazx&amp;tij^?^ 


American Conlerence for Irish 





Opinion 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Censorship 

Students need a forum 
to communicate ideas 

Why would anyone not want a student newspaper? Where 
would you go for information? How would this information be 
released? By word of mouth? How wouJd students communicate 
with 11,000 people on a weekly basis? Would students post 
information and grievances on walls and doors as Martin Lu- 
ther did 500 years ago? Can students be guaranteed expensive 



i Students' Government denies the value c 
press on a campus of 11,000 thinking people of varied oj 
Opinions that can be expressed in this paper. 

Yet, student senate, through recent actions, 
The Communicator through Resolution 90/91-3: "Through 
referendum, (Students' Government will) place the issue c 
continuing its (The Communicator's) subscriptions before th 
subscribers which are the studenLs of IPFW." 

, the resolution will ask the student body to becom 
' endum will as 



a political a: 
the students 



nev Bpaj 



iper. The reierei 
ght they might ! 



i to decide I 






Resolution 90 

it; io protec 



1-3 claims it is trying to protect 

r a student referendum when in ac 

trying to protect the student body president. 

Resolution 90/91-3 hangs as a spider 

igly deny rights that were gui 

&lt; the freedoms of speech, press ; 

es and a reft 

The Communicator could lose its subscriptk 

ed before in the e 



i* to I 



ticularly I 






Students should take 
second look at Snyder 




Resident upset with new Guest Pass Policy 



: Center's Guest Pass Policy. 




slate of Indiana, 1 feel that I have the State Park. An admission ticket di 

je the f its public facilities, including its advance to go to Helmke Library 

1 P re - state-funded universities. view a magazine. My point being tl 

two- For example, in order to enter for the vast majority of state tunc 

*ed to Brown County State Park I had to give and operated facilities one must foil 

Guest to check out a book at Helmke Library lations. I also understand that in 

ars, I enter the grounds of IPFW all I have order to some extent. But the athlet 

rbing to do is obey the parking and traffic department feels that the Athle 



IBM rep denounces booted off campus article 



you don't give B. 



student wants clarification S7&amp;CE£S3£B£ Z&amp;££.'S£££rj£%l 



unflattering charges 6. Did he really throw out 47 of his 






from Stu- story t 



reconsider? misuse of its responsibility" (front -,-, . . , 

2. Did you quote him accurately Ifge. Sept. 27, 1990). Is it conceivable hflTlinittt ITllCfniAtfC Klhlp 

when he said "What I have done in that such a charge might arise, in -*- ^HIlllXO L 1111S1J UUIC&amp; JJlJJlt? 

my pas, is irrelevant to my pes.tion ^^rva'ntT, t, Snte'uS T » ra « ™-= «*■ ' Y » ur *»™ wul be to rule ove 

TiVEeraUvSmt'havebeen bear the rest of the story Integrity -J^JWJ" f, " &gt;h L " C ! a T ^^fS^aJ^ 5eS ™, 

tnan^tmestTmore'tnanTie ^ " "'""'^ ^ThnH.Tn "?** ""* "^ ™ "" """*?■ ^^ "" "" *° '" ,meS " " 

T 1 - forming at least in part the foundation which mea™ "- ■■ ' 

Judge by own standards i™SES SSr. 



Letters Policy 



■ reserves space on this page 
matters of 



.Your 

letters addressing n 
) IPFW. If necessary, letters will be 

the author's name, signature, address 
. Only the author's name will be pub- 
Names will be withheld only for extra- 



The editorial board 

Letters should be sent typewritten to The Communicator 
office, Walb Memorial Union Suite 215, or mailed to The 
Communicator, Walb Memorial Union Suite 215, 2101 Coli- 
seum Blvd. E., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805. 



f Right"). From this quote 






motivation everything." The Greek word for ' 
attacks or different from "obey" and involve 
( brutal, of- Ephesians 5:23 states, "For 



stroys their relationships \ 



This should clarify the points that 
in the Sept. 27. 1990 issue of The 



acceptable and He (God) said, *I will greatly n 



Opinion 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



VP supports referendum resolution 



Do not take democracy for granted 




News 



THE COMMUNICATOR 




Features 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Campus censorship felt across the nation 



By JONATHAN I 



that, according to Time 



y," he remarks sarcastically. "Just 



Eleanor Holmes Norton, President codes themselves art 
Carter's chair of the federal Equal and condescending i 






gues. "The primary problem is that 



, *pxxn cooes nave Deen de- . , j , 

^"HVlBS Forbidden phrases? 

By WARD AND H 



Disturlia 



'^w^ 





HERE'S WHY 

THESMARTMONEYAT 

INDIANA - PURDUE UNIVERSITY 

IS (MG WITH TIAA-CREF 
AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT. 



Because it does. Smart investors 
know that your future depends on 
how well your retirement system 
performs. TIAA-CREF has been the 
premier retirement system for people 
in education and research for over 70 
years. We have enabled over 200,000 
people like you to enjoy a comfortable 



growth through dividends. CREF's 
variable annuity offers opportunities 
for growth through four different 



The CREF Stock Account 
The CREF Money Market Account 
The CREF Bond Market Account* 
The CREF Social Choice Account* 



SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, 

GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR 

RETIREMENT SAVINGS. 



. Growth-so and tell you n 



you'll have enough 11 



i TIAA-CREF. 



THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET 
WITH TIAA-CREF. 
TIAA offers you the safety of a 
traditional annuity that guarantees 
your principal plus a specified rate of 
interest, and provides for additional 



Experience. Performance. Strength. 
Your future is protected by the largest 
private retirement system in the world. 
We have done so well, for so many, for 
so long, that we currendy manage 
some $85 billion in assets. 



cotl W*° ast 




Friday, October 5 

noon to 3 p.m. 
in the Walb Outdoor Amphitheater 



J 



Sports 



THE COMMUNICATOR 




You've worshipped him from afar all semester 
You've heard his last girlfriend was blond. You 

You've enrolled in classes you hate just to be near him. 
He finally calls. 

Your line is busy. 



Call Waiting 



fE¥73 



have exceptional career opportunities a&gt; 
right person, with unlimited growth 
potential. That might well be YOU. 

Why not give us a call TODAY, or stop 
by any one of our many banking centers 
andpickupaJOBLINCcard. It could be 
the beginning of a mutually rewarding 
relationship. 



n 



