the Communicator 



Wednesday, Nov. 1 2, 2003 
Volume 34. Issue 1 1 
www.ipfwcommunicator.oig 



Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne 



53 years, always a smile 



Martin Luther King, Jr. once 
said, "If a man is called to be a 
street sweeper, he should sweep 
streets even as Michelangelo paint- 
ed, or Beethoven composed music 
or Shakespeare wrote poetry. He 
should sweep streets so well that 
all the hosts of heaven and earth 
will pause to say, here lived a great 
street sweeper who did his job 

IPFW is paying tribute to a 
woman who has worked her more 
than half a century and was known 
for her smile to students, faculty 
and coworkers throughout those 
decades. Ezel Smith has worked at 
IPFW for 53 years, starting at the 
downtown facility. 

Smith started working for the 
university in 1950. "I started down- 
town," she said. "It was in a small 
building. 1 was on one side and 
Purdue was on the other side," Ezel 
explained. 

She retired from IPFW on 
Sept. 4 and was honored with a 
reception to celebrate her dedica- 
tion and service on Nov. 7. 

"Everybody surprised me. I 
didn't even know I was going to 
have one," Smith said. 

Walt Branson, IPFW Vice 
Chancellor of Financial Affairs, 
unofficially declared Smith to be 
the person with the longest 
employment history for Purdue 
University. 




W » 
auldn' 



Ezel Smith is applauded by friends, family and coworkers 
for her years of service to the IU, Purdue and IPFW cam- 
puses'. Smith began 53 years ago -- when Henry Truman 
was President -- and had a retirement party Friday. 

the Physical Plant, who has IPFW Alumni Association. Smith 

worked even has a scholarship named in 

with her honor. 

Ezel for Don Katter, an IPFW retiree, 

s i x interjected humor when he com- 

years mented on the merger and move of 



"It was in a small building. I ivas 
on one side and Purdue was on 
the other side." 

— Ezel Smith 

IPFW retiree who worked for the 
ty for over 50 years 



. d the t 



than you do," addressed Smith 
about her work, which began when 
Henry Truman was president. 

David Danielson, Director of 



derful employee" and listed some 
of the honors she has received. 

21 Alive showcased Smith in 
their Sunshine Spotlight. She is 
also an honorary board member of 



""Sfrr was on the Indiana 

University payroll down at the 
Indiana University Center, which is 
now a parking lot. And right next 
to it was the Purdue University 
Center, which is now a parking lot, 
at the corner of Jefferson and Ban- 
Continued on Page 2 



Homecoming '03 to 
be 'Awesome, Baby!' 

By Mandie Pierce 

The Communicator 

Start catching up on 
your homework, because 
next week is going to be a 
whirlwind of activity here ' 
at IPFW. It's homecoming 
time and everything is 
coming out in full force. 
Student Activities Board 
has been preparing for n 
week since last year, and 
they've been planning n 
and exciting activities for 
this year's Homecomir 
Week. 

Student Organizations 
have been challenged to 
decorate a sheet for their 
organization showing off I 
their organizational 
school pride. The sheets I 
will be displayed during ' 
homtxoming week and the 

most spirited sheet will Homecoming Committee members 
win a $100 prize, Sheets are (from left) Jennie O'Shaughnessy, 
still available in the SAB Laura O'Shaughnessy, Cliff 
office and must be turned Louthan and Francesca Solari pre- 
in no later than Tuesday, pafe a prop ft)r (he f est ; v i ties set to 

Nov -^ 8 - begin Monday, Nov. 17 for IPFW. 

Keep an eye oul a " 

around campus for the 

signs announcing which day is pajamas are the cultural fashion de 

what theme, because you won't jour. Breakfast foods will be served 

want to miss out on any of the in both locations. Be sun? to pick 

activities going on next week, up your bagels, muffins and juice 

Jammed full of free giveaways, between the hours of 1 1 a.m. and I 
food, and fun, each day on campus 




week is sure to be unusual 
and exciting. "Homecoming 
Central" will consist of two loca- 
tions on campus, the Walb and in 
the Kettler basement. 

Monday is Crazy Hat Day, 



Wednesday is western day, 
dust off your boots and hi 
class. BBQ pork sandwich 
chips, veggies and cook 



for 



II hi- 



ved s 



■'IT'' 1 



Thursday is Mardi Gras and 
the goofy "hate from the the campus will U hflpplng Bring 

-- out ymi( bead an"d yotu masks 
and head off to the homecoming 
tables for some good food. They 
will he sen ing |umbalaya, veggivs, 
rolls and cookies at both locations. 
Thursday night is the home- 



back of your closel shelf oi ft 

under your bed. From 11 a.m. lo 
p.m., chips and coke are going I 
be served in the both locations. 

Tuesday, pajama day on can- 
pus means that those who are pei 
petually late have no excuse. Ro 
mil of bed and head off to clas 



Continued on Page 3 



News Briefs 



2nd Annual 
Children's Pow- 
WowNov. 15-16 

On Nov 15 and 16, the United 
nericati Students h ill 
presenl the 2nd Annua! Children's 
Pow-Wow in the Walb Student 
Union Ballroom. Doors open at 
I0arn ind close 10pm. Cost is S2 
per person, however if you are one 
nf the performing dancers, older 
than 50 years old or under 12, or a 
Student, admissioii is free 



of 



UNAS, says the purpose of the 
event is lo give recognition to the 
children. 

'Il is a celebration meant lo 

in. r,..i to the children of the Native 

American Community, ["hey are 

future and we must honor 

Featured in the ceremony will 
feature food, music, and an auc- 
tion I he music portion will lea- 
run? Medicine Wind, with leadej 
Beah Running, on the host drum. 
. .!■■ ISoys, from northern 

I drum. 

[Tie auction will feature area 
-riling a number of 
things, like dream catchers, dance 



shawls, or fans. No pipes, 
Eagle/Hawk feathers, or weapons 
are allowed to be sold 

In attendance as well will 1 
Head Veteran, [rtomas Andrews 
the Lumbee tribe, who the rnc 
respected Native American in H 
area. Some of Ins duties as lie. 
Veteran include deciding the fa 
of a dropped feather. It is up 
him to decide who should pick 
up and if i( is meant to be picked 

This event is sponsored by 
iPFVVs office of Multicultural 
Services, and by Indiana's amei 
can Indian Movement Suppo 

New play to be 
shown Nov. 12-15 

IPFW graduate NgOzJ Rejar 
Rogers will perform "Touch Vmr 
Soul: Feel the Burn" at the IPFW 
Studio Theatre in Ketller Hall Nov. 
12-15. All performances will begin 
at Hpm with free admission. 

Rogers, who also wrote tin 
il act oul a series of emo- 
tions based on one woman's strug- 
gles with anger, religion, relation- 
ships, suicide and herself. Some ot 

Continued on Page 2 



Fun Flicks 




Alisha Jenks (left) and Tonya Buck-Ryan strut their stuff Thursday. The entertain- 
ment group "Fun Flicks" was on campus. Students had a chance to make music and 
other types of videos during the day. More photographs of the event on on the A &amp; E 
pages on page 7 of this edition of The Communicator. 



inside 



ghost hunter, page 11 




More Fun Flicks info, Page 7 



13 




IPFW 



Page 2 The Communicator 



News 



November 12, 2003 




IPFW officials Wall Branson, David Danielson, Al Peters (all standingl share a laugh with 
Ezel Smith during Smith's retirement party Friday at Kettler Hall. Smith, unofficially, 
worked for the Purdue University system for longer than any other employee, according 
to officials. 

Ezel Smith retires from IPFW 



Page One 



streets," lie said. 

I If .iIsd added a personal note 
to Smith, "Ezel, it's been gre.it 
knowing you; il's been gre.it work- 
ing with you You've been an inspi- 
ration to all of us down through the 
years, and a great friend to all of us. 
Thank you tor everything." 

Over 50 people — from 
coworkers to friends to family - 
attended the reception held in her 

Martin Jischke, President of 

Purdue University, sent Smith a 
certificate, as well as a letter. 

"Your warm smile and rriend- 



Your warm smite and friendly greeting will be 
ssed by many on the IPFW campus. Often a kind 
word can make a big difference in a difficult day. 
I'm sure that those that have had the privilege of 
knowing you will always carry you in their hearts. 

Martin Jischke 
President, Purdue University 



ever I saw you. And I'm also miss- 
ing your help eating all the food 
always had," he said to 



alkrd Inlhe 



alk- 



ly greeting will be missed bv many Ezel. 

on the IPFW campus. Often a kind Branson also commented that 

word can make a big difference in a everyone at the university is 

difficult day. I'm sure that those responsible for its success, 

that have had the privilege of "The university has grown 

knowing you will always carry you and been very successful and I 

in their hearts," Jischke's letter stat- hope everybody knows that I 

ed. believe everybody that who works 

Al Peters, Ezel's supervisor at here has an important role in that, 

her retirement, said that she was And Ezel, you certainly have done 

very dedicated to her job and that your part, 
he will miss her, especially her 






"We had a lot of fun together 
r the years," Peters said. 

He will be retiring in 
ember, after working for IPFW 
more than three decades. 

Branson also noted that hav- 



Ezel's son, Melvin Smith, 
\me to the retirement reception. 

Smith instilled in her children 
strong work ethic and dedication 



like 



"She asked me to give the uni- 
ity her scholarship; she would 

And hopefully, 



ing an employee with more than 50 this is from Mom, I don't know 

years of dedicated service any- who to give this to. This is to go 

where is rare. towards her scholarship fund," 

"This really is a unique occa- Melvin Smith staled as he present- 

sion for Ezel retiring after 53 years, ed IPFW with a check for the Ezel 

but then 1 thought that it really is a Smith Diversity Scholarship, 
unique occasion for all of us Along with Melvin, Ezel was 

because ... 1 don't think I'll ever go joined by over a dozen members of 

to another retirement party for her family, including grandchil- 

somebody who has over 50 years dren and great-grandchildren cele- 

e organization," he brating the accomplishments of 



ui£ about .•n ,i regular basis, taking 
(he bus everyday," her son said. 

Ezel also enjoyed working in 
Kettler Hall. 

"I enjoyed myself working 
there and everyone has been very 
nice to me," she said. 

Melvin Smith went on to say, 
"Most of the time most of us don't 
gel an opportunity to work, but to 
like what vou're doing She jusl put 
her heart and soul into it, and that's 
the way she raised us." 

Ezel's eldest son, Marvin 
Smith, lives in Las Vegas and was 
not able to make it to the celebra- 
tion. However, he did send a tape 
to be played in his absence. 

Now that she has retired, Ezel 
will have more time to visit her 
family in Atlanta. Georgia; Dublin, 
Ohio; and Las Vegas. Nevada. 

"I'll go and see my family in 
different places," she said. 



Her i 



Melvi 









Honed that she would 

"She'll be going to Vegas, she'll 
be going to Atlanta, and she'll be 
going to Dublin. Then if we can get 












EM 



He will also miss her smile Smith was dedicated to the 

and the help she gave when there l"h. Both her son Melvin and Al 
was food. Peters commented that she rode 

"I'm already missing the the bus to work everyday. 
smiles I got in the morning when- "She just caught the bus, 

everyday and came to work - she 



thing like that, that's what I really 
would like to do," he added. 

"She deserves everything and 
more than 1 could ever give her. 
Again, I want to give my thanks 
from me to Mom, I love her. I'll 
always love her," Melvin Smith 



News Briefs 



the individual pieces that will be 
seen are Cods Phone Number, 
The Grinch Punked Out, A Bitch 
on Apology Lane, and A bista in 



of 



the 



character eventually learns that 
"you are more in control of your 
life than you think." 

The play was originally per- 
formed at the first annual New 
Plays Festival at the Pulse Opera 
House in Warren, Indiana. 

The event is sponsored by 
the IPFW Department of Theatre 
&amp; Office of Multicultural 

Psychology Club 
Fundraiser 

The Psychology Club will 
have its second fundraiser of the 
semester on Tuesday, Nov. 25 
from lOa.m, to 4 p.m. in the base- 
ment of Kettler Hall. 

They will be selling candy 
bars, suckers, and Rice Krispie 
treats. AM proceeds from this sale 
will go to Everybody Reads, a 
local non-profit organization thai 
promotes literacy in children and 
adolescents. In addition, they 
will also be taking donations ol 
new and gently used books (for 
ages infant-14 years old), so if 
you have any books you can give 
to this organization, please drop 
them off at the table that day. 

The last Psychology Club 
meeting of the semester will be 
held on Wednesday. December "i 
from noon to 1p.m. This meeting 
will be the first in a two-part 
series (the second one will be 
held in January) about volunteer- 
ing opportunities in the Fort 
Wayne and surrounding area. 
The organization plans to have a 
speaker from Community 
Harvest Fond Bank at this meet- 
ing. There will be pizza and cola 
available. 

IPFW To 
tour Turkey 

The Religious Studies 
Program in the Department of 
Philosophy at IPFW is taking a 
long distance field trip next 
spring, ail the way to Istanbul, 
Turkey. Michael L Spath, associ- 
ate faculty with a Ph.D. in Islamic 
Studies, will lead the tour into 
the Bwantineand Islamic worlds 
of Istanbul May 14 to 23. 

An information meeting 
about the tour will be held 
Wednesday, Nov, 12, at 6:30 p.m. 
in Walb Student Union. Room 
110. Spath says at the first meet- 
ing, those interested in going on 
the tour will find out the itinerary 
and cost of the trip. 

Tour-goers will spend six 
days in Istanbul, two of them in 
programmed tours, and four 
days on their own, an evening 
observing the dance of the 
Whirling Dervishes, a lull day of 
touring in Ephesus as well as a 
number of optional lours out of 



Istanbul. 

The cosl per person ranges 
from SI ,893 lo 52,093, depending 
on how many people sign up for 
the trip. The cost includes round 
trip airfare from Chicago, a 
Turkish visa, eight nights in a 
three to four star hotel, deluxe 
air-conditioned molorcoach with 
an English-speaking tour guide 
for two days in Istanbul and one 
day in Ephesus, daily breakfasts, 
some fees, lips, and gratuities. It 
does not include transportation 
from Fort Wayne to Chicago, 
travel and other insurance, or 
daily lunches. Reservations and 
lull pa\ menls are due by Feb. 1. 

For more information, con- 
tact Spath at 481-6366 

IPFW at Warsaw 

IPFW announced an open- 
ing of its new Warsaw Center in 
the Marketplace at Warsaw. 

IPFW has been offering 
courses in Warsaw since 1986, 
The new 6,270- sq.-foot facility, 
which will open for classes in 
January 2004, allows for the 
expansion of the number and 
variety of courses available in 
Warsaw. Wired with state-of-the- 
art technology, the new teaching 
center is equipped with two-way 
audio,' video teleconferencing, 
audio/ visual leaching aids, and 
wireless access to the IPFW com- 
puter network. The new building 
will have an ample parking and 
handicapped access. 

Students can register now 
for spring 2004 college credit 
courses. Classes for personal 
enrichment, professional devel- 
opment, and company 
also are available. 
January 12, regular business 
hours will be from 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m. Monday through Thursday 
and from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. on 

TheWarsaw community is 
invited to tour the new IPFW 
Warsaw Center during an open 
house scheduled for Monday, 
Dec. 8, from 4-8 p.m. 
Representatives of the IPFW 
Offices of Admissions and 
Fin. hum! Aid will be available to 
answer questions. 

Communicator 
changes 

This week's edition of The 
Communicator has a few format 
changes Because of the large 
amount of feedback from last 
week's edition, there are two 
pages of Opinions starting on 



Corrections 

The First Person column of 
Oct. 29 did not identify the writer 
of the article. 

Amy J, Kline, a student at 
IPFW, wrote the column. 



Editorial Board 

Scott M. Law son. Editor 

Deborah Dambra, Managing Editor 

Andrew Welfle, Arts &amp; Entertainment Editor 

Nick West, Sports Editor 

Kurti s Meyers, News Editor 

Eugene Harding, Photo Editor 

Katie Pruitt, Copy Editor 

K.E. Casey, Chief Reporter 

Tim Kanyuh, Advertising Manager 

Josh Vargas , Advertising Designer 

Andy Burnside, Web Editor 

Dorie Reynolds, Publisher 



Contact Us 

The Communicator 
Walb Union Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Editor: 481-6584 

Publisher: 481-6585 

Advertising: 481-6583 

Fax: 481-6045 

website: www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Editorial Policy 



Editorials are the opinions 
of The Communicator. The 
opinions expressed in editori- 
als or opinion columns do not. 
necessarily reflect the views of 
IPFW, its employees or its stu- 
dent body. A column is solely 
the opinion of its author. 



The 



Con 



elcomes responses from 
readers. Letters to the Editor 
and guest columns must be 
signed, dated and accompanied 
by a current, valid address, 
telephone number and class 
standing/major or title. 

Letters not meeting these 
requirements will not Be con- 



sidered for publication. 

All submissions made via e- 
mail will be verified by tele- 
phone or in person. Addresses 
and telephone numbers will not 
be published. 

Submissions must be typed, 
double-spaced and no more 
than 700 words. 

The editorial board of The 
Communicator reserves the 
right to edit all submissions for 
length, grammar, style and 
clarity. 

Letters deemed libelous by 
the editorial board will not be 
published under any circum- 
stances. 



November 12, 2003 



News 



The Communicator Page 3 



Omnibus series returns 



The Omnibus Lecture Series 
features Winona LaDuke, Tuesday, 
Nov. 18, in the Walb Student Union 
Ballroom at 7:30 p.m. Native 
American environmental activist 
and author presents "Politics, 
Motherhood, and Environmental 
Justice from a Native Perspective." 

LaDuke (Ojibwe) lives on the 
White Earth reservation where she 
works with the White Earth Land 
Recovery Program, a reservation- 
based land acquisition, environ- 
mental advocacy, and cultural 
organization. She is program direc- 
tor of Honor the Earth, a national 
Native Foundation, and is a 
founder and former cochair of the 
Indigenous Women's Network and 
former board member of 
Greenpeace USA. 



LaDuke writes extensively on 
native and human rights issues 
Her books include Last St.indinc, 
Woman (a novel). All Our 
Relations: Native Struggles for 
Land and Life, The Winona 
LaDuke Reader, and In the 
Sugarbush. She has also been pro- 
filed in publications including 
People, Sierra, and E magazines. 

LaDuke organizes and hosts the 
annual Honor the Earth tour in 
conjunction with the folk-rock duo 
the Indigo Girls, with whom she 
was named the 1997 Woman of the 
Year by Ms. magazine. In 1994, 
Time magazine called her one of 
the country's 50 most promising 
leaders under age 40. 

For more information, call 481- 



Writer to appear Dec. 2 



William Greider, author of 
The Soul of Capitalism, presents 
"Hope and Dread: Reforming the 
American Economy" Tuesday, Dec. 
2, in the Walb Student Union 
Ballroom at 7 p.m. 

Greider has also written five 
books that include One World, 
Ready or Not (on the global econo- 
my), Who Will Tell the People? (on 
the decline of democracy in 
America), and Secrets of the 
Temple (the first inside report on 
the Federal Reserve). A reporter for 
40 years, he was a national corre- 
spondent, an assistant managing 
editor, and a columnist for The 
Washington Post and Rolling 
Stone. He has also been an on-air 
correspondent for six documen- 
taries for Frontline on PBS. 
Currently he is the national affairs 
correspondent for The Nation. 

The lecture is free and open to 



the public. Sponsors are the IU 
Division of Labor Studies; The 
Northeast Indiana Central Labor 
Council, AFL-CIO; and the 
Workers' Project. 

There will be a post-lecture 
book signing, "Beer and Banter 
with Bill," at the Carpenter's Local 
No. 232 Union Hall, 1520 Profit 
Drive, Fort Wayne at 8:30 p.m. 
Tickets are $30 for nonmembers 
and $10 for Workers' Project mem- 
bers and low-income workers. All 
proceeds and additional contribu- 
tions will benefit the Workers' 
Project in its continuing efforts to 
empower workers through educa- 




IPFW Athletics Brian Miller gives away some free tickets to sophomore Kelli Allen in 
Walb Student Union this week. The IPFW basketball team is gearing up for an exhibtion 
with the Harlem Globetrotters Thursday and Homecoming Friday, Nov. 21. 



Homecoming Week at IPFW 

from Page One 






For tickets, call the Workers' 
Project at 260-482-5588 or the IPFW 
Division of Labor Studies 260-481- 
6831. For additional information, 
call the Division of Labor Studies. 



coming bonfire nut in the Willi.-mis 
Theatre parking lot and there will 
be hot dogs, cider, chips, dough- 
nuts and cola available for anyone 
brave enough to face the cold. 

Friday is spirit day, so adorn 
yourself in all your IPFW finery. 
Blue slushies and cotton candy will 
be available in the student union, 
between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. The 
tailgate party and Dick Vit.ile hook 



signing will be in I lie (..tiles p.uking 
lot between 2:30 and 4 p.m. Inside 
the Gates Sports Center, between 4 
and 5 p.m. is the Homei oming Pep 
Rally. The pre-game party will be 
held 5 until 6:30 p.m. in the Johnny 
Appleseed Room at the Coliseum 
with free food, cash bar and free 

The crowning event of the 



the Coliseum. Half time will liter- 
ally be the crowning event as last 
year's Homecoming King and 
Queen give up their titles, This 
year there are 15 candidates being 
interviewed for the chance to 
become this year's new royal cou- 
ple. Eight women and seven men 
are going to be questioned for the 
chance to represent our school. 





the nonstandard 
in student living 



amenities 



■ Individual Housing Agreements 

■ Furnished Bedroom , 

1 Furnished Living Room 
1 Fully Equipped Kitchen 
1 Dining Area with Chairs 
1 High-speed Internet and Cable Television Service 

• Community Center 

' Social Lounge with Big Screen Television 
1 24-Hour Laundry Facility 

• Fitness Center 

1 Basketball Sport Court 

' Computer Learning Center/Cyber Lounge 

' On-site Community Assistant Staff 

1 On-site Management and Maintenance 

Opening Fall 2004! 



IPFW 
Student 
Housing 



INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

Kettler Hall G98F • 2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, Indiana 46805 
www.IPFWstudenthousing.com • email: info@IPFWstudenthousing.com 

PROFESSlONAtLY MANAGED BY AMERICAN CAMPUS COMMUNITIES 



Page 4 The Communicator 



On Campus 



November 12, 2003 



Community band performs 



The Fort Wayne Area 
Community Band will gather on 
[he stage of the Performing Arts 
Center, 303 B. Main Street, Fort 
Wayne, on Tuesday, Nov. 18 for 
their fall concert. Downbeat is 7;30 
p.m. 

The Fort Wayne Community 
Band, under the baton of David B. 
Cooke, will perform such tunes as 
the "Suite of Old American Dances" 
by Bennett, and "Am.i/ine, C.r.iii'" 
by Ticheli. Along with other musn 
being performed, will be the 
"Grand Ledges- Vistas in 
Michigan" by McCarthy, directed 
by our assistant conductor Sue 



Jehl. As a special treat the band will 
be performing "Stardust" by Hoagy 
Carmichael featuring Dave 
Blackwell on clarinet. So come and 
join in on the fun of a great evening 
of music performed by the Fort 
Wayne Community Band. 

Tickets are available at the 
door for S7.00 for adults and $5.00 
for seniors and students. 

There is no charge for children 
under age 12 when accompanied 
by an adult. If you have any ques- 
tions, you may call IPFW 
Department of Music at 481-6714 
or Publicity Chairperson Ron 
Reece at 429-4844 




MM 



r? 



I* h 7 &gt;yt$ #i ,i 

Its not x just dinner, its sftmctlinig special. 
I ")" flying thlt srieci/l somtfnne in thnight. 
Arab perfect for dances and prom, 
t 3 (JA^perv^tiojt.c^:^!^ ^ 



Some applause, please 



IPFW recognizes 
contributions 
from community 

Thk --lory is being r 



within. 

On Thursday, Oct. 30, an annu- 
al complimentary dinner, titled 
"Applause VHI", was held in the 

U'.ilb B.illroom by invitation only. 
IPFW Chancellor Michael Wartell 
took the opportunity to thank the 
many donors who have con- 
tributed to IPFW over the past 
year, especially what the campus 
designated as "major" donors. 

Don and Doris Willis were 
thanked for their $3 million dona- 
tion, the largest ever to the school. 
The new bridge spanning across to 
the new student housing has now 
been named the The Willis Family 
Bridge. The money donated was 
ei|u.illy --plit between s L hi&gt;hr&gt;hips. 
endowment for the Chair in 
Entrepreneurship in the School of 
Business and Management 
Services and unrestricted funds. 

Also given recognition that 
night was lone Auer. Auer has 
given a quarter of a million in 
scholarship money over the years. 




Photo by Elmer Denman 
IPFW Chancellor Michael Wartell, right, listens as lone 
Auer and Paul Shafferare thanked for their contributions 
to the university. 

and recently gave $2.5 million to a school's first chair in English and 

new 2.1'100-^fdt concert hall-audito- Linguistics. 

rium. Don Sherman, Jim Johnston, 

Ruth Rhinehart was thanked and Don Schenkel, who sparked 

for giving $1.5 million which will the drive to raise the $3 million 

name a recital hall in the new needed for the down payment, 

music building in honor of her late were thanked for helping make the 

husband, John. Howard and Betsy IPFW student housing project a 

Chapman were recognized for reality. 

their donation of $1 million, which Applause is an annual event. 
helped economically with the 



Homecoming Day Festivities 

Friday, November 2.1st 



Tailgate Party w/ Dick Vital e 

Gates Center Parking Lot 

- Free Chili - 

2:30-4:00 




PEP RALLY 

w/ Dick Vitale 

Gates Sport 

Center 
4:00 - 5:00 



Pre- Game Reception 

Memorial Coliseum 

Johnny -Appleseed Room 

- Lots of Free Food - 

Cash Bar 



HOMECOMING 
G/AME 

MEMORIAL 
COLISEUM 

DICK VITALE 

6:30 TIP OFF 



November 12, 2003 



On Campus 



The Communicator Page 5 



Music therapy to 
showcase talents 



The IPFW music therapy 
majors offer an informative presen- 
tation of the field of music therapy 
and showcase their clients in an 
informal demonstration of the 
client's musical progress and 
accomplishments. 

The IPFW Department of 
Music will present a compelling 
and compassionate evening of 
song and music on Friday, Nov. 14 
at 7:00 p.m. in Neff Recital Hall. 
Music therapy students and their 
clients will perform songs and 
demonstrate therapy techniques 
during this memorable and touch- 
ing concert. The concert is being 
organized by Student Music 
Therapy Clinic Directors Kristen 
Bouwman and Kelly Lorenz. 

The program consists of 
music therapy clients and 20 stu- 



dent therapists. Special quests for 
the evening are two music therapy 
interns from the Fort Wayne State 
Developmental Center, along with 
music therapists Sara McKown 
and Kimberly Swank. 

The IPFW Department of 
Music has the only accredited 
music therapy program with an 
on-campus clinic in the state of 
Indiana. The Music Therapy Clinic 
Concert showcases the efforts and 
talents of music therapy students 
and the strides they have made 
with their clients throughout the 
semester. 

The concert begins at 7:00 
p.m. on Friday, November 14 in 
Neff Recital Hall. Admission is 
free. For information, call the 
Department of Music at 260-481- 
6714. 






In an effort to discover our readers* opinions, 

The Communicator asks you to 

fill out this brief survey and return it to 

Walb Union Room 215 

or give it to a staff member on The Communicator. 



What would you add to The Communicator? 

If, What has been the biggest improvement, 
^disappointment by the newspaper this year? 



Don't forget to 

Recycle this 

newspaper. 

We appreciate 

Your support. 




What are the best and worst portions ot 
The Communicator? 



Interested in journalism? 
Join The Communicator 

Contact us at 481-6584 or stupaper@ipfw.edu 




Thursday, Nov. 20 th 

Williams Parking 

6:30 




Free Hot Dogs, Doughnuts, 
Cider &amp; Coke 



••mastodon Mania** 

Homecoming 2003 

November 17-21 

Two Homecoming Centrals!! 
Walb Union &amp; K«mior Tabloc 



Craxy Hal Day *i 

11:00-1:00 



»aJ«H Day ^/, 




11:00-1:00 



A* 



w* 



Waotwra Day 

11:00 1:00 



Maral 
era* 

11:M-1:00 



v* 



•&gt;&gt; 



aw Ml Waft* Spa* Day 

11:00-1:09 



Page 6 The Communicator 



A d &amp;E 

arts and entertainment 



November 12, 2003 



'Matrix: Revolutions' a blockbuster bust 



: the 



r iWi' 



plot threads can 
whole- the answ 
ing no. I will d 
no details conc&lt; 
the denouement; 
ever, I felt tha 

ambiguous and 

fusing conclusior 

to reach ,i profundity great chance you will 



npt, I be 



What happens when you combine a 
multi-million dollar budget, A-list movie 
actors, top of the line special effects and the 
writing talents of Ihe successful Wachowski 
brothers? 

To put it simply, the biggest failure to beyond its scope, 
be spawned out of the simpering, self- Personally, the 

aggrandizing wasteland that is Hollywood point became so bela- 
in decades. bored that I found I 

Lest 1 seem a tad harsh, please allow almost wanted to say 'I 
me to qualify my statement; I expected gel it already!' If the 
more out of this movie than the typical sci- movie was judged 
ence fiction blockbuster. In reality, the solely on the strength of the 
"Matrix: Revolutions" is not in itself a colos- it would fit perfectly between Farscape 
sal failure, and when considered in isola- Stargate reruns on the Sci-Fi channel. 
lion, it is a relatively entertaining film. With such a script, a clear a 

However, when compared with the| 
commanding performance of the 
first movie, the second and third 
movies (which really are just one 
four-hour marathon) 
about making 
experience and more about 
ing the audii 
movies could be. 

I consider the I' 
one because the third 
is the focus of this 
time to recap for a 



If you liked the sec- 
ond movie, there is a 



njoy the third install- 
ment as well. 



of the cast is near to 
imation, the actors did 
the best they could 
given what they had 
E to work with. No 
performance truly 
stands out; rather, 
due to aspect* of the 
dialogue, 1 remem- 
more of the 
nfortable act- 






not s 







because minutes of boring, i 

introductory dialogue were i 

the script. Yet somehow, the 

still managed to be weighted down I 

with confusing, superfluous di 

logue not related to theinlroductii 

Thus, if you haven't fully dige^ti 

the first two i 

understanding the final mstallme 

are close to impossible. If you ha' 

viewed Ihe Firs 

er, the rapid advancement to the plot I 

is to be applauded. 

(Despite the benefits of a rapid I 
opening, what the brothers 
Wachowski do when they get to the I 
plot is disappointing. The 
over-extends itself and presents t 
many storylines for the &lt; 
absorb in one setting; as the fi!m| 
progresses, the burning question i 
not if Neo can save Zion, it is 

whether or not so many divergent Hugo Weaving as "Agent Sn 
Matrix trilogy. 



it' re was one redeeming 
'ie whose presence in the 
is grossly overdone: that 
pect is the special effects. Art Direction 
and the technical aspects of the 
movie should truly be in Oscar con- 
tention. The stunning visuals (and 
indeed, they do live up to the hype) 
made the religious and philosophiu.il 
psvchohabble be.irable. Never before 
in a movie did I want the exposition 
to get over to the next fight scene, 
until this movie. The strength of the 
special effects is enough to warrant a 
iewing — after all, these 
effects are meant for the big screen. 

My review (or diatribe to some by 
now, I am sure) appears very harsh. 
But this is only because the "Matrix 
trilogy" had everything going for it 
-despite (or in addition to, depend- 
ing on your perspective) the second 
movie, the strength of the "Matrix" 
name was enough to fill a theater on 
.i Uvdiiesdav night. However, by the 
end of the movie, perhaps the most 
telling indication was the reaction of 
the audience: it very nearly cleared 
out with the credits barely halfway 
through. 

If you liked the second movie, there 
is a great chance you will enjoy the 
third installment as well. If you saw 
something special in the first movie, 
but only liked the second one 
because it would get you to the con- 
clusion, wait for the video. Perhaps 
the most epic story of all is that mil- 
lions of moviegoers will waste their 
money on a film that fails to deliver 
on nearly all accounts. 



Community 
Calendar 



The Department of Music presents a 
pert ormance by the IPFW Symphonic 
Wind Emsembfe on November 17 ot 
7:30 p.m. in the Neff Recital Hall. 
The concert will open with the 
Barber of Seville Overture by 
Sioacchino Rossini. The performance 
vill also include Robert W. Smith's 
To Dance in the Secret Garden" and 
the Second Suite in F. Opus 28 No. 2 
by Gustav Hoist. The performance 
will conclude with "Fiesta," by Clifton 
Williams and "Cry of the Celts" b) 
Ronan Hardiman. Tickets are $' 
adults, $3 seniors, $1 non-IPFW stu- 
dents, and admission is free for 
IPFW students with a valid I.D. Call 
the Department of Music at 481 
6714 for more information. 

The Department of Music presents 
the IPFW Music Therapy Clinic con- 
cert on November 14 at 7:00 p.m. in 
the Neff Recital Hall. The concert 
will feature various music therapy 
students and their clients as they 
perform songs and demonstrate 
therapy techniques. IPFW has the 
only accredited music therapy pro- 
gram in the state of Indiana, 
Admission is free. Call 481-6714 for 
more information. 

The Fort Wayne Philharmonic's 
Masterworks Series presents Chris 
Brubeck and Peter Boyer in a per- 
formance themed, "Gershwin and 
American Master." Edvard Tchivhel, 
the Philharmonic's chief conductor, 
lead the orchestra featuring 
Chris Brubeck on the trombone as a 
guest artist. Boyer's tone poem, 
Titanic," pays tribute to the ocean 
iner disaster of April 13, 1912. 
Performance is November 15 at 8:00 
p.m. at the Embassy Centre. Ticket 
prices range from $19 to $49. Call 
456-2224 Tor more information or to 
get tickets. 

If you are a non-profit or arts ana 
entertainment organization and you 
would like your event displayed in the 
Community Calendar, please send 
information at least two weeks in 
advance to Andrew Welfle, Arts 
Editor, The Communicator. Fax: 481 
6045, email: stupaper@ipfw.edu 



V I i ii.'Ji 'ii I. jT'n'li ijUkJIililili I: "&gt;|TQJ. :|, 'ifJ'[ ! l h^i'l:' i^Eli '^jGii H'. J !&lt;~!n^;JL r 3o i , !:7t l ii ' '^ : !&gt; 



The Communicator 

Positions 

Students interested in applying for 

the positions of: 

EDITOR 

MANAGING EDITOR 

ADVERTISING MANAGER 

for the Spring 2004 semester can 

apply now. Submit a letter of interest 

along with any resume or clippings 

to: 

Richard Papazian 

President, Board of Directors 

Walb Union 215 

2101 Coliseum Blvd E. 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



iL r.-jj.:i^^c^c^j^fji?^j^^n^T?:L^j(ai^jiij = u^r ^'^oiT^'^^^^^'i^^-^J v[iJV^ : iV^^'i^L^rry;." , .^i]^-i 'j.^r^.7.i'iji 



...And now, the final batch 
of runners-up from the 

"50 Bucks for 50 Words" 

contest! 



"A Guy Can't Com-pare 
With a Dog" 

by R.B. Arnett 

Tom entered the apartment and 
plopped down heavily. 
What's wrong?" Dave asked. 
'She has a dog." 
'So?" 

'So? A dog never complains.. A dog 
ran be treated like crap and still 
oves you. And a dog'll snuggle 
light after night and never want 
sex." 
'Dude, you don't have a chance." 



"Witness" 

by Christina Bonifer 

Grabbing the door knob, tears 
streaming, fighting not to take one 
breath. He's out there searching, 
hunting for his prey. Through the 
crack I can see her draped across the 
bed, like a coat haphazardly tossed. 
The flow of blood crawling from her 
chin makes me realize the fear com- 
pletely. 



"A Worm's Prayer" 

by Dawn Luebke 

Dear Mother Nature; 

Wiggling slowly upon the black 
top lot I wish for the sun not to rise. 
I haven't made it to the crack where 
green resides. I ask thee for some 
rain to keep the black top cool for 
my crossing. I don't want to bake 
today. 

Amen. 



"Job Satisfaction" 

byLouisa Ann Danielson 

Straw is itchy. Wood is slivery. 
Dinky chimneys scrape. That's not 
what stopped the wolf, though — he 
was tougher than that. It was the 
pigs themselves — and their black- 
belts. After three deadly encounters, 
the wolf quit. He is now the 
Structural Weakness Consultant for 
TLP Builders and relishers his job. 



November 12, 2003 



arts and entertainment 



The Communicator Page 7 



Green screen dreams at the Fireside Lounge 




On Thursday, November 6, the SAB hosted "Fun Flicks" in the Walb Fireside Lounge. Students had the chance to make a video of themselves 
performing to popular songs in front of a green screen. Left: Noel Hernandez, Alicia Jenks, and Candice Trice lip sync to the Village People in 
"YMCA." Right: James Lavin and Dan Baltulonis from Kramer Entertainment monitor the performers and mix the songs and images into the video. 

'First Friday' reading brings good food, poetry 



The Fort Wavnc 1 1 1 ru l- Rivers Co-op on 
Sherman Avenue is home to just that. 
Called First Friday, On the first Friday of 
every month, the New World Cafe inside 
the Co-op serves up a dose of hearty simp 



and insightful poetry to its ( 

"We are glad for the turn-out," said 
George Kalamaras, a creative writing pro- 
fessor at IPFW and the coordinator of the 
First Friday program. Last Friday he started 
out the evening b\ proclaiming it to be a 
"perfectly quiet, cool harvest evening." 

Thus, the performers followed the 
"harvest" theme. 

For the first half of the evening, the Co- 
op brought folk storyteller lull.) Meek (host 
of "Folktales from the Briar Patch" on 



WUMI and lill Mo/ena (proprietor of cof- 
feeliiuise Toast &amp; Jam on Fast Wayne Street) 
on the guitar. 

The duo alternated between Meek's 
telling ol lolki.ilcs n bile Mo/ena strummed 
her guitar, with a musical interlude by 
Mozena between stories. 

The tales were typical of a folk story. 
Taking place a long time ago, in a land far 
away, the hero or heroine learns a valuable 
lesson or moral by the end. 

One of the tales told of Hazoo the 




farmer and King Echo. While Hazoo was 
planting corn and harvesting it, King Echo 
asked. 'What are you doing 1 " every step of 
the way. 

After Hazoo told him, King Echo sent 
hundreds of men to help Hazoo. While 
Ha/oo was happy with the help at first, by 
the end. King Echo's men were so numer- 
ous, that the crop was ruined. The moral: 
good help is hard to find. 

Mozena's songs were light and simple, 
singing ol an "October Saturday," (the title 
of one of the songs) and other "harvest 
evening"-themed songs. 



After 



10-r 



ute 



kalamaras introduced Hie poet who was to 
take command the second half, Michelle 
Niemann. Niemann, a graduate uf the 
University ol Rhode Island, now works al 
the Writing Center at IPFW. She read sever- 
al of her poems: a couple tree verse poems, 
prose, and a paradelle. 

A paradelle is a poem with four stan- 
zas ol five lines each The tirsl and third line 
is repeated in the second and fourth, and 
the filth line is a combination of both lines, 
with the words rearranged. Her paradelle 
was entitled, "The Highway." 

inn's poetry was interesting in 

very disjointed. Many images in 

ork seemed to be taped together, like 

scrapbook. It worked, however. 

theme in her poems involved 



citing 

3 of chain stores: Cracker Barrel, Wal- 
Borders, Arby's, and the like. 
Another great part of the First Friday 
readings i-. the location in which it takes 
place. The Three Rivers Co-op is, essential- 
ly, a grocery store with a cafe attached. 

While listening to the readings, one 
can enjoy a cup of soup, a desert, a sand- 
wich, or a cup of coffee or cappuccino. The 
best part about the Co-op is that everything 
they sell or serve is completely natural or 
organic. The words "preservative" and 
"additive" are unknown there. 

On Friday, to further accentuate the 
"harvest" theme, the kitchen was serving a 
delicious chicken and vegetable soup, with 
large chunks of chicken and healthy chunks 
of carrot, celery, onion, and potatoes in a 
broth. Campbell's Chicken and Stars, eat 
your heart out. 

"They have a reputation for serving 
great food here, which makes the poetry i 
reading even better," said Mary Ann Cain, 
another creative professor who attends First 
Friday every month. It is true, the food 
brings in the audience. 

Next month, the First Friday readings 
will take place on Dec. 5 at 7:30 p.m. Poets 
Eric Baus and George Kalamaras himself 
will perform, Both poets have books corn- 
Last Friday, the crisp November 
evening brought people into the warm cafe 
of the Three Rivers Co-op. The enticing 
smell of soup and the sight of cheesecake, 
muffins, and other desserts only added to 
the soothing sounds of Julia Meek's or 
Michelle Niemann's voice reading litera- 






itself 



It was a celebration of not only the 
autumnal harvest of food, but of a harvest 
of words as well. The Co-op brought the 
food, and Kalamaras brought the words, 



Page 8 The Communicator 



Opinions 



November 12, 2003 



Amendment I 

Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, 
or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of 
speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to 
assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. 



Editorial 

Saving President Ron 

The next time a conservative complains about the liberal media, it will be a 
statement of idiocy. Conservatives, hissyfitting like fourth graders, forced the hand 
of CBS to remove a mini-series on network television looking at the life of Nancy 
and Ronald Reagan. 

They complained about the screenwriters' take on Reagan, but now only 
people who have Showtime will be able to judge the screenplay. Republicans who 
honor Reagan as their hero refuse to have anyone other than Sean Hannity tell a 
version of his story. They seem to think that a public figure - a president - is only 
theirs to talk about and to consider in the historic record. And for anyone else to 
write about Reagan, the writers xoould need permission from Nancy, Ronald and the 
Republican National Committee. 

Nancy, let's not forget, did schedule some of Reagan's days via a 1980s ver- 
sion of Miss Cleo. And Reagan, let's remember, by the time he spoke his first speech 
about AIDS, 25,000 people were dead or dying of the diesase. 

So for a writer to ponder The Great Communicator's personal thoughts on 
the ailment should seem reasonable. If people want to protest the movie, or boycott 
the commercial products supporting it, that's one thing. But Conservatives, flexing 
their muscle, showed how weak the media truly is to them currently. And it's not a 
good thing anytime any political party has enough strength to tell networks what 
programming they should or shouldn't have. 

None of these people raised a brow at the movie "Primary Colors " which told 
a semi-fictionalized ston/ of Bill Clinton, minus the name "Bill Clinton." That's 
because Clinton was quite human, and people could laugh at the situation knowing 
that - while much of it was fictionalized -- the points the movie was making were 
facts. Clinton could charm the pants off a buried corpse and a lot of Americans 
couldn't understand how. It was a social question that was deemed in bounds. 

ittill Of course, "Primary Colors" was told as fiction. Whativasn't told as fiction 1 
by the Conservative media for the eight years Clinton was in office were the urban 
legends about his presidency. Clinton had Ron Brown killed. Along with a few 
White House workers and government agents. For the better part of eight years, 
NeiusMax.com, Drudgereport.com and Rush Limbaugh would belch out wild tales 
of Clinton, but not have anything to back it up with, fust rumors. 

Vfhen they make their version of "The Clintons," we hope they remember to 
get the permission of Bill and Hillary. 

Letters to the editor 

Editorial staff arrogant 

To the Editor: 

This letter concerns the matter of the pictures addressed in the Nov. 5 issue of The 
Communicator. I?m not concerned with so much what happened (the facts were addressed 
and covered sufficiently), but why it happened and the related viewpoint of The 
Communicator staff afterwards. 

Now the editor referenced the First Amendment to the Constitution. I would also like 
to refer to that amendment, specifically the first portion: "Congress shall make no law 
respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;?" Now, you 
may wonder what this has to do with the freedom of the press; answer: not much. But it 
does serve as a useful analogy in showing what are the rights given by this amendment and 
more specifically, what they are not. 

The freedom of religion portion means that any person cannot be prohibited from wor- 
shipping, or not worshipping, any creed, god or belief. That means when someone choos- 
es to kneel on a prayer rug, dance under the moon or conduct a mass, you do not have the 
right to stop them or interfere. What a person does not have the right to do, is enter my 
house to conduct that religious activity without my permission. The logic used by the edi- 
tors of The Communicator for the freedom of the press, would give them this right. It 
would in fact allow anyone to break into my home, your home, a business, for the purpose 
of conducting religion. Just as The Communicator would have the right, (i.e. freedom of the 
press) to force any printer to print whatever they wish. 

From the front page article by Scott Lawson, it would appear that The Communicator 
editorial staff had some concerns as to the appropriateness of the pictures. While they 
resolved this issue for themselves, you might think it odd that they did not consider that 
they would be forcing this viewpoint onto a third party when they chose not to discuss it 
with them first. Therein lies the problem that caused this situation. 

The editors of The Communicator believe they have the right to force their beliefs 
upon others, just as many religious fanatics believe they have the right to force you to fol- 
low their creed. The issue here is not freedom of the press, but arrogance. 

1 hope the editors can recognize this and leam from it. 

David Armstrong 

Information Systems 

Toor taste and vulgar' 

Dear Editor and staff of The Communicator: 

I would like to address the issue of the article "Violation of Standards?" in your most 
recent publication. You claim that the Kendallville Publishing Company (KPC) violated 
your First Amendment rights when they edited your photographs. You state that KPC 
tampered with your freedom of the press, which is "to publish what we felt was appropri- 
ate for our readers." You state that KPC, being a privately-owned business, cannot violate 
your freedom of the press in any way. 



I would like to take these points and elaborate. First, as a reader of The 
Communicator, I found even the airbrushed photographs to be in poor taste and vulgar. 
You may claim that John Eric Hawkins is an artist and that these photos are merely a cele- 
bration of the human body, but to me they promote promiscuity and sexual deviancy. 

This is the absolutely wrong message for the readers of The Communicator. These 
photographs serve as nothing more than pornography, fulfilling the lustful desires of one 
man who has duped thousands of people into believing it is art. It never ceases to amaze 
me the great lengths people will go to simply to put their smut, foul language or lewd 
joking into the limelight. 

But let me throw something at you, members of the press. To what great lengths will 
you go to make sure a letter like this never reaches publication? Not just what you have 
previously read, but all of it. 

I?m here to wam you. There is a truth out there that members of the press fear. They 
scream and yell to the ACLU whenever the subject comes up. That truth is so powerful 
that millions of people around the world writhe in anger upon hearing it. Are you so 
blind to the truth? 

Here it is: 

"For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever 
believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting life. For God sent not His Son 
into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through Him might be saved. 
He that believeth on Him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned 
already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. And 
this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness 
rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one that doeth evil hateth the 
light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth 
truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be manifest that they are wrought in God." 
John 3:16-21. 

There you have it. The truth is Jesus Christ. The truth is that Jesus was born of the 
virgin Mary, lived a sinless life on this earth, and died on the cross of Calvary for the 
world's sins. Three days later He was resurrected and, after spending time with his disci- 
ples establishing His church, ascended into heaven. It is your choice to gain entrance into 
Heaven or be cast down into hell. So repent of your sins and accept Jesus Christ as your 
personal Lord and Savior. 

The Bible says that we are to "Abstain from all appearance of evil" (I Thessalonians 
5:22) Jesus also says, "Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, 'Thou shall not 
commit adultery': but I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after 
her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart." (Matthew 5:27-28). 

What can you take from these scriptures? The filth that you printed in this issue of 
the paper has contributed to the continued deviancy from the Word of God. The Bible 
speaks of a generation in which the people no longer blushed. This means that they were 
not ashamed of anything that happened or what anyone did. This nation is becoming 
more and more like that. My face turned bright red when I saw that picture on page 6. It 
was not a red face of anger, but of embarrassment and shock. I blushed. Did you? 

I will no longer read nor endorse your publication at any time in the future. If 
pornography is what you feel is appropriate for your readers, then I will no longer be 
one. I cannot be a part of the group you wish to adhere to: the perverse and vile genera- 
tion that kowtows unwittingly to the prince of darkness. If you are not in the light then 
you must be in the dark. You either serve the Lord of the light, or the lord of the dark. It is 
your choice. 

I will pray for you all that you might leave the darkness and step into the light. I 
pray that you would experience the peace, love and joy that can only come from the gra- 
cious Lord Jesus Christ. 

Respectfully Yours, 
A servant of Christ 

Matthew J. Cordes 
Sophomore, Accounting 

Ghosts or demons? 

Andrew Welfle's articles on the haunting of various areas were thought provoking 
and interesting. The photographic spread shot by Ghost Tracker Jennifer Zamaites seems 
to indicate the presence of unexplained orbs of light. As a civilian police photographer in 
the 1990s, I shot thousands in an urban setting in ever changing light, temperature and 
humidity conditions. The presence of these types of orbs in photos was common. This 
phenomenon was usually attributed to internal camera moisture or cut-rate processing 
where chemicals are old or allowed to pool on the negative. 

As I read further into the article, it stated that all IGT's were raised Christian and 
how it was a challenge to combine Christianity and Ghost Tracking. I agree that it would 
be a challenge to mesh the two. While the Bible lists many references to spirits, I could 
not find any reference to a human's spirit returning to this life to communicate in any 
form. There are, however, many references to both demonic and angelic spirits at work in 

After finishing the article and coming to my own conclusions, there may be some- 
thing to the orbs of light in the Ghost Tracker pictures and in the plethora of photos I 
shot. After all, the majority of my photos were taken at a crime scene or accident site. 
Many times the sense of an evil or dark presence could be felt in rooms or places where a 
crime had occurred. Could this have been the ghost of the victim of a crime or accident? 

According to the Bible, there are no ghosts. This would lead to the probability that 
the demonic realm is responsible for the "hauntings." 

In closing, I believe that the Indiana Ghost Tracker members do actually see and 
experience all that they claim to see. I just disagree that the origin of these sightings and 
experiences can be called ghosts. Don't take my word for it though, I invite those 
Christian-raised Ghost Trackers to explore what the Bible says about ghosts and spirits. 
Zamaites is quoted at the end of the article as saying, "I go into a situation with a skepti- 
cal mind, but I have to be open to what?s going on around me, and be willing to accept 
what I see." This is good advice in any situation and I tend to agree. I am willing to accept 
what I see as truth, but unwilling to actively seek its company. 

John Caywood 
Junior, history 

Letters to the Editor can be sent via email to 
stupaper@ipfw.edu, dropped off at Walb 
Student Union Suite 215 or mailed to The 
Communicator at our address on page 2. 



November 12, 2003 



Opinions 



The Communicator Page 9 



Freedom of Speech 

Did the nudes in last week's paper offend you? 




Carlos Gonzalez 



Mi 


It was fin 


^■■■1 


"I didn't 


n 


to cover 
the first 
time, but 


P| 


think it 
was very 


WL iV 


if someone 




porno- 


P^ CT 


wanted to 


HH t ah 


graphic. 


r&gt; aJ 


seethe 


9w 'pi 


It was 


*M 


real pic- 
ture, they 
could 




more art- 
ful." 


ii 


have gone 
to the art 






^^ ■ 


show." 

Ko 






Chrissy Bamett 


rin Maciulski 




Senior 




Freshman 





B "I didn't r 
find it /^\.«gj 

offensive ■ ^ * *i 

because I L. 

it was 1 ^ J - 1 

art.lt J - '- M 

«««■" MM' , j 



Ben Saurer 
Senior 



Brian Clark 
Sophomore 



All apologies to the PC world for a satire attempt 



I was going to leave this 
whole subject alone. After all the 
controversy about "the column" 
from last summer, I thought every- 
one had gotten it out of their sys- 
tem. 1 thought I could start off the 
year with something new. I guess 1 
was wrong. So, for the benefit of 
everyone who demanded that 1 
defend my column from last 

It was a horrible column. I 
threw it together at the last minute 
because 1 simply didn't have the 
time (or space) to fully explain my 
views. That being said, I have all 
the time and space I need in this 
issue, and I plan to use it. First, I 
need to get the technicalities out of 
the way. The views expressed in 
this column are those of the writer 
alone, and do not reflect the views 
of .The, Communicator or : The, 
Communicator staff. (This should- . 
n't be necessary on the Opinions 
page, but some people still don't 
get it.) 

I want to start off by apologiz- 
ing to the Pagan Student Alliance 
because I think I singled out this 
organization unjustly in the final 
issue last year. My philosophical 
disagreement isn't with the IPFW 
PSA specifically, but with pagans in 
general. After doing more research 
into their beliefs, I simply don't 
agree with their attempt to legit- 



Rent/row's 
Right Side 



imize themselves as religious peo- 
ple when it seems like they are 
simply taking an easy way out. 

Pagans are people who want to 
have religion in their lives, but they 
want it on their own terms. They 
don't want their lifestyle and per- 
sonal morality to be constricted 
and confined by the covenants and 
teachings of the mainstream reli- 
gions, but they feel the need to 
claim some sort of spirituality. So 
they declare themselves Pagans, 
and pick one of the 5 million differ- 
ent "branches" of Paganism that 
best fits their particular lifestyle. 
Voila — a "religious" person who 
can do anything they want to, no 

guilt included^ ,,m -.rii ..; ,i,i v , n 

r, ,nThiSris- l fln.&lt;ll&gt;sqlute icop-pwtlif 
you ask me. Even we Christians 
aren't perfect, and we never claim 
to be. The main difference between 
Christians and pagans is that 
Christians try to meet God's moral 
code: pagans throw it out and cre- 
ate their own. But what do you 
expect from a group who thinks 
that God/god(s) were created in 
the image of man? Someone please 
explain to me how that one works 
out logisrically. 

I would like to apologize to 



United Sexualities (or EREN, or 
Rainbow, or PUSH, or the Boston 
Red Sox, or whatever they are call- 
ing themselves this week.) 

I singled out United Sexualities 
(now EREN) in that column and 
was immediately accused of being 
a homophobe. Let me assure you, I 
don't give a flying crap what any- 
one does in the privacy of their 
own home. While my initial gut 
instinct was to be opposed to the 
Supreme Court overturning the 
Texas sodomy law, the more 1 think 
about it the less 1 care. I don't want 
the government telling me what I 
can do in my house, and I believe 
gay Americans deserve the same 

ki fact, (and you'd better get 
your highlighters out and put this 
on the bulletin board somewhere) 
all of us straight people better 
wake up and look at what the gay 
community ,is doing. While the 
homosexuals, are fighting *like hetl' 
to legally gain the privilege of mar- 
riage, a majority of heterosexuals 
seem to be looking for ways to 
avoid it. That's right, all you 
"playaz" out there — you know you 
are screwing up pretty bad when 






.ake 



columnist like myself give gays 
any points over you. You need to 
grow up and start worrying about 
who you want to spend your life 
with, instead of racking up notches 
on you headboard. 



Now, I'm not ready to let the 
gay community (or EREN) off the 
hook just yet. While I don't care 
what you do at home, I care a 
whole helluva lot about what you 
do out in public. If you want to be 
recognized as legitimate equals, 
start acting like it. There are 
numerous gays in the world who 
fit in just fine with their straight 
peers and have no problems at all. 
But, they don't parade around pub- 
lic places, proclaiming their homo- 
sexuality to all passers by through 
a bullhorn. 

My main point: Legitimacy will 
come to those of you who make 
being gay a part of who you are, 
instead of ALL of who you are. I'm 
sure that statement makes sense if 
you really stop and think about it. 
When anyone, regardless of their 
sexual orientation, allows one sin- 
gle aspect of their life to define who 
they are as a complete person-they 
&lt;a*e--neven'genng'tt*be legiumatlfcttd ■ 
by society. 

For instance: I am a straight, 
Caucasian, Christian male. When I 
meet new people, I don't make it a 
point of saying, "Hi, I'm Justin, and 
I am soooooo freaking straight. In 
fact, come over here, Honey. Let me 
throw my tongue down your 
throat and grope you for a while to 
prove just how really straight I 
am." The point I'm trying to make 
is that only ultra-conservative 
idiots will care if you are gay as 



long as you don't rub it in people's 
faces every 5 minutes. 

The more you go out of your 
way to draw attention to the fact 
that you are gay, the more resent- 
ment you are going to get from 
mainstream society. I will still hold 
to my statement about the Miss 
Gay IPFW thing; it isn't helping 
you legitimize yourselves. All this 
event does is give everyone the 
impression that all gays are like 
that all the time, and that is an 
impression the gay community as a 
whole absolutely should not want 
because it is not true, 

America as a whole is more 
ready that ever to accept the gay 
lifestyle (or at the very least not 
openly oppose it). I realize that 
there was a time when the only 
way to get a message out to the 
world was to be as "freaky" and 
"out-there" as you could be so that 
someone would actually pay atten- 
*!it)iU0&gt;'whntybu were 'Saying. That 
time has passed. In order- to' be 
accepted as a "mainstream" group, 
you need to start acting the part a 
little bit more. 

There-I hope I have explained 
myself belter, I'm really a reason- 
able person. I just need to remem- 
ber that I am not a comedic writer, 
and I'm obviously not very good at 
satire. Either that, or the "PC" 
crowd just has no sense of humor. 
I'm inclined to think that both 
might be true. 



It was the breast of times, it was the worst of times 






By Mandie Pierce 

Columnist 

From the moment 
talk, we are told what 
can not say. Our parents put onto i 
certain ruies and moral codes th; 
encourage us from saving nipple i 
poop, in common, everyday conve 



But what is so wrong with these 
things? Quick, while no one's look- 
ing, sneak a little peek into your 
shirt. No, not into the shirt of the 
person next to you. You there, yes 
you, I'm talking to you, only look 
into your shirt. That is, unless the 
person next to you wants you to, 
and I guess that's a completely dif- 
ferent story. 

Anyway, what was I saying? Oh 
yes, censorship. After looking in 
your shirt, I'm willing to bet that 
you found a pair of nipples. If you 
can't find them, look again, maybe 
you missed them. Look on your 
breasts, they should be there. Oh 
goodness, I've said breasts and nip- 
ples in the same paragraph. Heaven 
forbid the powers that be, or the 
powers of the Almighty himself, 
smite me. I feel lucky enough, hav- 
ing wagered on the fact that you all 
have nipples to make another little 
bet. At one point, in the last week, 
you went poop. "Poop," in other 
terms, is otherwise known as a 
"bowel movement," "taking a shit." 
"taking a dump," "taking a crap" and 



Piercing 
Questions 



"dropping the kids off at the pool." I 
think I may need to sit down, anoth- 
er taboo topic has left these fingers. 

I'm feeling faint, where?s my 
glass of water? 

Speaking, now with a hell of a lot 
less sarcasm, censorship is occasion- 
ally ok. Don't get me wrong, I'm not 
being hypocritical, but there are 
some lines that someone needs to 
defend.Child pornography, for 
example, should be banned and 
anyone possessing, creating and/or 
distributing it should be shot in pub- 
lic. When they say public stoning is 
old-fashioned and excessive, I don't 
think they had child molesters in 
mind. This is one of the few areas 
where I feel censorship isn't a bad 
idea. Airbrushing away a pair of 
nipples of a piece of art, without 
approval, is another story. 

Recently, our newspaper fell vic- 
tim to a "Good Samaritan" act of 
kindness. Artistic photographs were 
changed without the consent of the 
paper or the artist, and that is ridicu- 
lous. I'll just restate the first amend- 
ment for those of us who slept 
through our history, government, 
and communication law classes. 

It states: "Congress shall make no 



law respecting an establishment of 
religion, or prohibiting the free exer- 
cise thereof; or abridging the free- 
dom of speech, or of the press; or the 
right of the people peaceably to 
assemble, and to petition the gov- 
ernment for a redress of grievances". 

Correct me if I'm wrong, but 
there is no law stating that every 
naked body is pornographic. If that 
were the case, then no naked body 
should be shown in any context. 
Guys, shell out the bucks on the jer- 
seys for practice and pick-up sport 
games, because shirts vs skins is 
morally unacceptable. Designers, 
you better get working on a man- 
one piece swimsuit, because I don't 
think we can have men in just swim 
trunks. I can see nipples, and who 
knows where nipples will lead. In 
health class all models and textbook 
illustrations must be clothed. 
Heaven forbid, a small child learns 
the facts of life. Naked pictures of 
the human body in health class cir- 
rocumulus are just another way for 
the evil people in society to make 
pornography mainstream. 

All famous statues of nude 
humans put some clothes on or pre- 
pare to meet with the ax of the angry 

David, this includes you, honey. 

Does anyone know where we 
can find some of those cute red heart 
boxers for our stone friend? 
Continuing, heaven help the poor 
soul who has to take the paint and 



go around painting and designing 
clothes for all the nude portraits out 
there. Better get a ladder, fellas, 
because you've got some church 
ceilings waiting for your paintbrush. 
Cherubs are naked sometimes too, 
you know. 

If an artistically portrayed naked 
body doesn?t offend a church, a 
church built back hundreds of years 
ago, it sure as hell doesn't offend me. 
People lifting their heads to the Lord 
were faced with a nipple or two, and 
they were (and are) ok with it. Why 
can't we have a nipple in our college 
paper? We're flipping through to be 
entertained, informed, or even just 
to waste time, not looking for a 
cheap thrill. 

Granted, I'm not a guy, and for 
the most part pom doesn?t affect 
girls the same way it does the males 
in our lives, but I've devised a little 
test to see if something constitutes as 
pom. If guys are paying to see it, lin- 
ing up to see, or sneaking copies of it 
away in their nightstands or under 
their beds, if s pom. If they don?t 
look twice at it, ifs artistic. Some of 
the conclusions from this little test: 
Playboy-porn, Hustler-porn, 

victoria Secret Catalog-pom, (for the 
truly desperate 12-year-old) Sears 
catalog-pom, Cinemax (after 10 
p.m.)-pom central. But, on the other 
hand, our favorite naked guy, 
(David), PBS's special on the miracle 
of life, eighth grade health class, and 
one black and white picture of a top- 



less woman in our paper hardly 
qualifies as "spank-worthy". 

Nipples had been erased to pro- 
tect the good students of IPFW from 
blatant eroticism, when there are 
organizations on campus that hand 
us free bibles. Due to the handling 
on this issue, I highly doubt that our 
friendly publishers would restrain 
from printing copies of the Bible or 
giving them out, they'd do it gladly, 
I'm sure. Well, grab a copy of the 
Bible and you're reading all kind of 
eroticism. There is sexual references 
from cover to cover. Lot has sex with 
his daughters, there is sodomy in 
Sodom and Gomorrah, and a man 
and a woman "being of one flesh" 
mentioned throughout the "good 
book". If you're looking for a simple 
and great example of eroticism in 
the bible, take a quick look at Song 
of Solomon. 

So thanks to our friendly printers 
- whom, as far as I'm concerned, are 
stuck in some weird twilight zone, - 
-the artistic value of Mr. Hawkins' 
work has been compromised. 
Perhaps they felt they were doing 
what right, but in reality, they're 
starting down a dangerous path of 
what is and is not pornography 
Pretty soon, pictures of our pets or of 
any animal will be banned from the 
pages of The Communicator. After 
all, most animals don't wear clothes, 
and we'd hate to be distributing 
pornography to the a 



Page 10 The Communicator 



Features 



November 12, 2003 



IU study: Hoosiers for condom education 



By Ryan Piurek 
IU Media Relations 
BLOOMINGTON - In the midsl of 
,m ongoing national debate about 

condom educ.itinn in schools, near- 
ly eight out ..I to Hoosiers agree 
thai Indiana public high schools 
should educate teenagers about 
how lo use condoms to prevent the 
spread of HIV, according to survey 
findings from Indiana University, 

The survey showed little 
change in this view over the past 10 

years, li also Indicated that eight 
out of 10 Hoosiers believe thai all 

teenagers, regardless of whether or 
not they are sexually active, need 
information about how to use con- 
doms correctly. 

Additionally,, there was a 
strong consensus thai this Informa- 
tion should be medically accurate 
(94 percent agree) and determined 
by the majority oi local parents (71 
percent agree), and that classroom 
instruction should include con- 
doms so students 



schoi 



"This concurs with national 
studies that have shown that 
most parents and teens think we 
should teach correct condom 
usage in high schools." 

William L. Yarber 
Kinsey Institute at IU 



studies done in 1993 and 1998, 79 error is plus or minus 4.4 percent, 

and 75 percent of respondents, Mohammad R. Torabi, chair of the 

respectively, supported high school IU Department of Applied Health 

education on correct condom use Science, was the co-investigator for 

for HIV prevention. This year's the study. 

study indicated that 77 percent of Yarber will present the survey 

Hoosiers shared this view. findings at the annual meeting of 

Yarber said these findings the Society for the Scientific Study 

could be used to bolster support of Sexuality, which will be held 

for implementing instruction in Nov. 6-9 in San Antonio, Texas. He 

public high schools on how to use received the Distinguished 

condoms correctly. Scientific Achievement Award 



and 



tudes toward leaching correct con- 
dom use in high schools have 
remained virtually the same over 

llir |',isi 111 vi'.trs. despite the con- 

ly/' said William 1 yarber, princi- 
pal Investigator for the study; pro- 
fessor of applied health m icnceand 
gender studies, and senior research 
fellow in the Kinsev Institute for 
Sex, Gender and Reproduction at 
sity Bloomington. 



believe that pub- 
lic opinion should be a major influ- 
ence in public policy decisions, 
then it can be argued that Indiana 
public high schools should, in fact, 
educate teenagers about correct 
condom use," Yarber said. 

The 2003 survey involved i 



Mils 



.■ith 



from the society last year for his 
research on adolescent and rural 
HIV/STD sexual risk behavior. The 
researchers plan to publish their 
findings in professional journals. 

In light of recent efforts to dis- 
credit condoms and their effective- 
ness, Yarber said he is encouraged 
of 21 questions asked of by the continued public support in 
more than 500 Indiana adult resi- Indiana for condom education in 
dents between July and October, high schools. He also found there is 
The data were collected by a ran- an increasingly positive perception 
dom telephone survey of the entire of condoms and teenagers who use 
state conducted by the IU Center them. To illustrate these changing 
for Survey Research. altitudes, Yarber cited the follow- 

Ten of the 21 questions were ing statistics: 
also asked in 1993 and 1998, allow- • 80 percent of Hoosiers dis- 
ing the researchers to determine if agree that a person who carries a 
public opinion in Indiana had condom has a lot of casual sex - an 
changed over the past 10 years 11-point increase from 1998. 
about the availability, promotion, * 68 percent of Hoosiers dis- 




agree that promoting condom use 
is the same as promoting sex. 
* 82 percent of Hoosiers agree 
that teenagers who use condoms 
for sex are being responsible. 

82 percent disagree that 
telling high school students that 
condoms reduce the risk of AIDS 
and other STDs is the same as 
telling them a lie. 

While they agree on many 
issues related to condom educa- 
tion, Hoosiers demonstrate "con- 
siderable ambivalence" when it 
comes to type of classroom instruc- 
tion and condom availability in 
schools, Yarber said. Differences of 
opinion were found over whether 
classroom instruction should 
include objects so students can 
learn to correctly put on a condom 
(54 percent agree), whether con- 
doms should be made available to 
high school students free of charge 
(46 percent agree) and without 
parental consent (46 percent agree), 
and whether the views of local 
teenagers should determine what 
information is taught in public 
high schools (48 percent agree). 

"There's a major debate in 
society about condoms and 
whether young people should have 
access to this type of information 
that can protect their health," 
Torabi said. "There are a lot of peo- 
ple who are afraid to ask students 
what they want to know." 

Yarber said there is work to be 
done in providing correct informa- 
tion about the overall effectiveness 
of condoms in preventing the 
transmission of HIV and other 
STDs. 



Philharmonic 
to present 
'Romeo and 
Juliet' in Nov. 

As part of its Spectrum 
Chamber Orchestra series, the Fort 
Wayne Philharmonic is blending 
classical and popular music with 
the dramatic elements of theater 
when it presents two performances 
of Romeo and Juliet at the 
Performing Arts Center, Nov. 22 
and 23. Both presentations, 
Saturday evening at 8 p.m., and 
Sunday at 2:30 p.m., will be con- 
ducted by Philharmonic Music 
Director Edvard Tchivzhel. The 
theater portions are being directed 
by Gregory Stieber, who is a long 
time member of Fort Wayne's the- 
atrical community and a staff 
member of the Philharmonic. 

This season marks the return 
of the Philharmonic's Spectrum 
series with the Sunday afternoon 
concerts designed to appeal to 
families. Kids, kindergarten 
through high school seniors, 
attend Spectrum concerts free 
when accompanied by an adult 
ticket-holder. Sunday's perform- 
ance includes an opportunity for 
select audience members to receive 
drama coaching from Stieber, dur- 
ing intermission, and an open dis- 
cussion of the performance during 
a question-and-answer session 
with theater director Stieber at the 
conclusion of the performance. 

Tickets for Romeo and Juliet 
are available: in person, at the 
Philharmonic Box Office, 2340 
Fairfield Ave., where there is 
always plenty of free parking, by 
phone, at 456-BACH (422-2224). 



Politics, Motherhood, and Environmental 
Justice from a Native Perspective 



Tuesday, Nov. 18, 2003, 7:30 p.m. 
IPFW Walb Student Union Ballroom 

An internationally respected Native American and 
environmental activist and author, LaDuke fights for 
environ mental justice issues in native America. She 
focuses particularly on energy policy, including 
nuclear waste, dam projects, coal strip mining, and 
alternative energy. 



Free public lecture ▼ Free parking 



American Sign Language interpreter provided upon request. 

Lecture funded by a grant from tbe English, Bonier, Mitchell Foundation. 

Media sponsors- Northeast Indiana Public Radio and NewsCbannel 15. 



action/Equal opportunity 




G&amp;ocb Ttinefr, Old/Tr'vw^cmd/ClcWf^ 




Present Student ID for 1096 \ 
\ off your Food StU Iff J 

Monday - Monday Night Football and 

T&gt;a.r-t&amp; - Free &amp;ix*a and Mot Dog&amp; at Half-time 

Tuesday - Doe Went "Single* XBonce Forty'* 

Wca-rrceday - Livo Acou&amp;tic Jam aytdoDrw in 
the Couxrty arcL and in the Hideaway 

Thurmday - Live fin the Hideaway 
Jack Hammer and the Trained Morikvy* 

Friday O Saturday - lAvo local, regional and 
national band* m the Hideaway. 

Sunday - Amerwran Root* Miutia featuring 
tho Blue Moon Boys and SpatiiaJ Ouetrt^ 

Experience our AM Tuna, WaTZeye and 
Band Cut StoahM. Sandwich "baatkotM and 
Ernie's Signature Rihs. 

Ice Cold Beer- and XJot X&gt;ia&amp;afor carry-out 
every night until clomo. 

•Outdoor diiiui)&gt; in coiirtyaid, in Ei i)it*s Pub, non-smoking family dining room, 

and t+iellicfejwayl^&gt;ungp„ 
•Daily drink specials, free loud buticL from 430 pni lo 6:30 pm. 
-Wednesday &amp; Thursdays Budwrs of 5 Coors Lfehr for 17.00! 



-ClOM 






Salinity 4.30 V m [ill Ctuat- 
Siaiaav 4.30 Ml M Wright. 

CALL for Reservations. Carry -out. Private Parties, or oui 
260.432.2050 or FAX: 260.492-2860 
email: emi6frgemJescJassic.com Web: www.emiescJassic 



ootta eieep sometime!!! 

(que Catering at 



Present this ad and get m FREE 
onion loaf with any entree. 



V 



Covne/t^arly - Sticky 1&amp;X&amp;. 
Lunch/ fune/, fu^t&amp;n&amp;artd' nighttimes 



November 12, 2003 



Features 



The Communicator Page 1 1 



First Person 



The truth about me: I hunt ghosts 



There is a game used in groups 
and at parties to break the ice and 
to get to know each other called 
Two Truths and a Lie". 

It's an attempt to not only get to 
know one another, but also to test 
out your human lie detector skills 
and find which of the three is a bla- 
tant falsehood. 

i usually am 95 percent success- 
ful in throwing off my fellow 
game-players. 

My standard three statements 
are as follows: "I spent a summer 
living in Germany. My favorite 
place to vacation is Hawaii; I've 
been there three times. I hunt 

The truth is, I've never been to 
Hawaii. 

Now that you're humming the 
Ghostbusters theme in your head, 
let me end that idea right here. I do 
not own a station wagon with 
logos on it, I don't even own a 
jumpsuit (let alone wear it) and I 
do not carry around huge guns 
filled with green ooze. 

If you were to see me on a ghost 
hunt, I'm in jeans, a t-shirt, and 
sneakers. I carry a flashlight, a 
camera, and plenty of extra batter- 
ies. My little blue accent is logo- 
free and I don't slide down a fire- 
man's pole anytime there's been a 
"sighting". I've not battled giant 
marshmallow men, nor have I met 
any minions of Satan himself. This 
is not to say that I've not had my 
share of experiences. 

Some brief terms that will be 
useful to you; orbs: balls of white 
i;;;lit i_.iugltt on tilms or by digital 
cameras, very rarely seen by the 
naked eye, mist: your basic fog- 
type appearance, apparitions: what 
people typically think of as 
"ghosts "-transparent images of 
people or animals, EVPs: electronic 
voice phenomena- voices heard on 
recorded media, but not the naked 
ear, EMF: electro-magnetic fields, 
detected by EMF readers that find 
electric and magnetic fields in the 
environment, and hunts: going out 
into a suspected haunted location 
with equipment to see if any evi- 
dence of a haunting exists. 

When it comes to anything out 
of the realm of "normal", my theory 
on it is, just because I've never seen 
it, doesn't mean it doesn't exist. 
When it comes to the air we breath, 
we don't usually see it, itself, but 
that doesn't mean it doesn't exist. 
We see the affects air has on things 
around us, for example the leaves 
in the wind. 

We can't physically feel air 
itself, but can feel the wind on our 
skin. Much like air, we can't see the 
paranormal, but perhaps when you 
are 100 percent sure that you left 
your keys on the counter and you 
find them on your nightstand, how 
do we know that's not just the 
same as branches swaying on a 
windy day? We can't see or feel 
ghosts, but how many of us have 
had that feeling that we were 
indeed not alone, or we've had a 
cold chill hit the back of our necks 
and put our hairs on end? 

For those of you who have had 
your science classes know that 
there is a theory that states "energy 
is neither created nor destroyed, 
but transferred from one form to 
another". You are also aware that 
in the human body, there is a sig- 
nificant amount of electricity. This 
electricity causes your heart to beat 
and your brain to function. When 
we die, this electricity just doesn't 
fail to exist. It has to go some- 
where, and that is, what I believe, 
to be the creation of, what most 



people consider being the cause of 
"paranormal activity." 

I'm not saying that there isn't a 
Heaven or a Hell, nor am I saying 
that all people become "ghosts," 
please don't get me wrong. I'm just 
stating a matter of fact that this 
energy has to go somewhere and I 
believe that this energy is what 
most people capture either on film, 
or through audio as "ghosts". 

My first hunt was downtown 
Fort Wayne. It was the first time I 
had ever done anything like that, 
and I had no idea what I was get- 
ting myself into. I thought that 
people would think I was crazy 
because I loved to hear a good 
ghost story and I've often won- 
dered what that was that I saw out 
of the comer of my eye. I met 
people that, much like myself, 
were just out to seek out answers to 
our questions. We wanted to find 
proof to say one way or another 
whether or not something actually 
exists beyond what we can see. 

I didn't find much that first time 
out, but my curiosity was peaked. 
I began learning more and more 
about the equipment used and 
about the different local lore and I 
decided that I wanted to see if 
more exist other places. 

For spring break, when most of 
my friends and sisters (raveled out 
of town to some tropical local, 1 
packed up my winter clothes and 
headed to snowy Pennsylvania. 
My father and I, whom has become 
interested in this as well, packed 
up my tiny Accent GL and headed 
off through the mountains to a little 
town in southern Pennsylvania. I 
spent four 

nights and five 
days in a little 
town called 
Gettysburg. 

Gettysburg 
is known to be 
one of the most 
haunted loca- 
tions in the 
United States. 
A quiet little 




Mandie Pierce is a writer for The Communicator, a part 
time ghost hunter and a sophomore at IPFW. 



for 



Every once in awhile, 
when normal life gets to 
be too boring, I take off 
on a hunt. Some people 
like to watch movies, or 
go to haunted houses to 
get that chill up their 
spine, but Hollywood 
doesn 't do it for me any 
more. 



the floorboard and even sigh from 
the old fashioned heater across the 
room. I felt every breeze of wind 
the floated through the room and 
every slip of the blankets on my 
body felt like the tug of a small 
impatient child. I drifted off occa- 
sionally, but not 
for very long. I'd 
wake up in the 
middle of the 
night, grab my 
digital camera 
and take a few 
shots around the 



three days dur- 
ing the Civil 
War - could lit- 
erally be con- 
sidered hell on earth. 

There were 150,000 troops in the 
town and the surrounding areas 
and the battle was not contained on 
the fields surrounding the town, 
but through the main streets of 
Gettysburg. After it was all said 
and done and those three days 
were over, the dead lined the 
streets and were hurriedly buried 
in mass shallow graves, wherever 
room was available. Since that day, 
many strange events have occurred 
in this now famous small town. 
Apparitions and manifestations, 
orbs and mists, voices and noises 
echoed back from those three days 
in the 1800s, and I was willing 
seeking them out. 

My first night 1 spent in a B&amp;B 
called the "Farnsworth House Inn 
and Tavern". This place bragged a 
ghost for every room and has been 
featured on numerous specials 
about haunted places and Civil 
War ghosts. The room we were to 
be staying in was reportedly the 
favorite place for the ghost of a 
small boy, killed when ran over by 
a carriage outside of the tavern. 
There were toys in the room for 
him to play with, and we were 
encouraged to leave the toys out 
for him that night. 

Our room had no phone, no TV, 
and no radio so the silence that 
night was almost unbearable. I lay 
awake, listening to every creak in 



were to catch any- 
thing interesting. I 
had a few orbs, 
but the toys 
weren't moved so 
if he played with 
them that night, 
he was a very careful and clean 
child. 

The next night, I spent out on 
the battlefields. My favorite place 
in particular was an area known as 
Devil's Den. This was the sight of 
many gruesome and meaningless 
deaths. The Den was located at the 
bottom of Little Round Top, held 
by the opposing forces, any 
attempts to overtake Little Round 
Top from the front was defeated by 
the troops shooting down on them. 
They were picked off easily from 
the high viewpoint, but still the 
troops pressed forwards. The 
small river between the Den and 
the hill ran so red that they nick- 
named it the river of blood. 

Yes, I willingly went out to this 
place in the ink-black of night and 
walked around talking to myself. I 
whistled the Battle Hymn of the 
Republic as took pictures to see if I 
found anything in particular. I 
actually had little luck finding any- 
thing out of the normal for a cold 
Pennsylvania night until I started 
whistling. I stood in one spot and 
whistled the song and watched, 
through the display on my camera, 
as orb after orb came out of the 
woods and circled around me. 

rock and just absorbed 



the 



Of 1 



spot so huge historically speaking 
and the awesome view of the stars 
from the desolate darkness of the 
battlefield when I began to feel 



slightly uneasy. 

Have you ever been in trouble 
with your parents or friends and 
known it just by the atmosphere in 
the room? They don't have to say 
anything, or even look at you nec- 
essarily, but ymi gel the feeling that 
you're in deep with them just by 
the tension of the room when they 
walk in it. This is exactly what I 
felt while sitting by myself in the 
middle of this field. 

My dad, and the other dozen or 

that night in the Den were on the 
other side of the rocks, but yet I felt 
like someone was standing righi 
behind me, glaring at me, burning 
a hole in the back of my head with 
their eyes. 

I readied my camera, jumped 
up, spun around, and took a pic- 
ture of the rock where I was sitting. 
There was a mist almost complete- 
ly surrounding where I had been 
sitting only moments before. I 
grabbed my stuff and made my 
way back to where everyone else 
was located. 

I had had enough personal con- 
tact on my own to last me the rest 
of the night. 

I've been on a handful of hunts 
since my trip to Gettysburg, but I 
plan on going back there again, 
possibly during spring break. 
Every once in awhile, when normal 
life gets to be too boring, I take off 
on a hunt. Some people like to 
watch movies, or go to haunted 
houses to get that chill up their 
spine, but Hollywood doesn't do it 

It's a lot better knowing that 
you're not sitting behind some TV 
screen, or in some comfortable the- 
ater, or that there is some high 
school kid behind that mask. You 
may be face to face to what awaits 
you after you die. I kind of hope 
that I do stick around as a ghost, 
because then I can follow ghost 
hunters around and give them the 
kind of thrills and evidence that 1 

Maybe next time you are home 
alone, but you don't feel alone, 
you'll be able to take your camera 
and capture a visitor you didn't 
know you had. 



Tricks and 

treats. 

Teens learn 

via secret 

game 



The Liemandt Foundation, a 
nonprofit family foundation 
focused on promoting technology- 
enabled education, is hosting a col- 
lege student video game develop- 
ment contest with a twist - stu- 
dents are being challenged to build 
entertaining games that 'secretly" 
leach middle school subjects, 

The contest, which started in 
mid-September, and can be found 
at www.hiddenagenda.com, 

focuses on the notion of "stealth 
education" in gaming, pushing 
students to create primarily enter- 
taining games that also teach sci- 
ence and math topics such as 
forces, statistics, or the solar sys- 

Students have complete free- 
dom in their game designs. They 
may work in teams of up to eight 
people, can build the games on 
and for any platform, and may use 
existing engines if they choose, 
Games will be judged in May, with 
five finalist teams flying to Austin, 
Texas for their final shot at the 
$25,000 prize. 

Advising the contest are 
experts such as Ultima creator and 
gaming legend Richard Garriott 
and educational game visionary 
Marc Prensky, and the project is 
affiliated with the Digital Media 
Collaboratory at the University of 

"There is no doubt in my 
mind that college students can cre- 
ate the next breakthrough educa- 
tional video game," says Garriott. 
Prensky agrees, "1 look forward to 
watching these motivated and cre- 
ative students break through the 
barriers of historically boring 
learning games." 

Among the many benefits of 
challenging college students to 
build the game is the notion that 
once these students enter the pro- 
fessional game development com- 
munity, they will understand the 
importance and potential of stealth 
education. 

While all submitted games 
must fulfill teaching and technical 
requirements to be considered, 
final judging is based on 70% 
entertainment and 30% education- 
al value. "The uneven split in 
judging criteria is crucial," 
explains program director Lauren 

"In the past, educational 
games have failed because no mat- 
ter how well they taught, kids just 
weren't motivated to absorb infor- 
mation. Children will only learn 
from the games they want to 
play." 

W 
W 

w 



f 
w 



~ Have a First Person story to tell? 

Contact 
THE COMMUNICATOR at stupaper@ipfw.edu or call 481-6584 



Page 12 The Communicator 



etc. 



November 12, 2003 



Space Ghost flying, Aqua Teen swimming to DVD 



Cartoon Network's top-rated 
series, "Space Ghost Coast to 
i oast" and "Aqua Teen Hunger 
Force" make their DVD debut on 
November IK, 2003 from Warner 
I fame Video 






rated late night animation block 

"Space Ghost Coast to Coast: 
Volume One" will contain 16 

episodes plus i umnienl.iries from 



"Elevator," "Batmanris," "The Story 
Book House," "Girlie Show," and 
"Fire Drill.' 1 Other features include 
music videos and original show 
artwork. "Space Ghost Coast to 
Coast" is one of cable's longest run- 
ning series, having debuted in 
1994. 

"Space Ghost Coast to Coast" 
features a former superhero who is 
now the galaxy's crankiest talk- 
show host. He's joined by his pris- 
oners-turned -sidekicks Zorak and 
Moltar. His guest list for "Space 
Ghost Owst to Co,ist: Volume One- 



includes the Bee Gees, Ashley 
Judd, Adam West, Slash, Carol 
Charming, Terry Jones, and many 

The "Aqua Teen Hunger Force; 
Volume One" DVD will contain 16 
episodes, including the original cut 
of the pilot, "Rabbot." 
Commentaries from the show's cre- 
ators appear on episodes "Space 
Conflict from Beyond Pluto" and 
"M.tyhem of Ihe Mooninites." 

Never- 
before-seen 



den bonus material are also includ- 
ed. "Aqua Teen Hunger Force" 
chronicles the adventures of 
human-sized food products, 
Meatwad, Frylock and Master 
Shake, who live together in a rental 
house in New Jersey. 

When they are not hanging out 
in their next-door neighbor Carl's 
above ground swimming pool, 
these three are being visited by 



Airing Sunday-Thursday from 
11 p.m.-2 a.m, "Adult Swim" fea- 
tures an blend of quirky original 
comedies, familiar favorites, 
action/adventure and anime 
series. "Adult Swim," with pro- 
gramming aimed at young adults, 
made its debut on Cartoon 
Network in September 2001. . 



NOW IN FORT WAYNE &amp; SURROUNDING AREAS 



Switch to the Biggest and Best 



AT&amp;T Wireless 



Classifieds 



Plans .„ 

stalling ni &lt;1 OOO 



Hi IF LEATHER CASE 

wrra student i.d. Receive a FREEDigitol Phone with Charger 

(A $30.00 VA1UE) «&lt;*Mfa.S».»»™i 



260.637.3096 

for more details and FREE Dellverv 



Help Wanted 



I looks and ages. Earn $100 to $500 a day. 
51 Nov 12 si 



Travel 



Spring Break 2004. Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Jamaica, 
Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800- 
648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 

14t Dec 10 si 

Spring Break '04 with StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free Trips, 
Cash, and VIP Status as a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. Book early 
for FREE MEALS. FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve online or 
view our Photo Gallery, Visit www.studentcity.com orCall I -888-SPRINGBREAK! Novis 

Spring Break -sign up with Student Express and get FREE roundtrip airline tickets to over 15 
International destinations, including Aruba. Dominican Republic. Costa Rica, Caribbean hot spots 
and more. Whv go ,m\ where eKe'.' Limited &lt; &gt;lfer - call now. Commission rep positions also avail- 
able. 1-800-787-3787. www.studentexpress.com 



Advertise with us. 
BUY 1/8 PAGE OR LARGER FOR 3 CONSECUTIVE 

WEEKS GET 4TH &amp; 5TH WEEK 35% OFF 
Contact Tim Kanyuh 481-6583 or stupaper.ipfw, 



IPFW Organizations are starting to 
get ready for the semester switch. 

Are you involved yet? 

Join one of the over 90 groups at 

IPFW. Make college more than 

grades. Make it memories. 

A complete list of IPFW organiza- 
tions can be found at 
http://vv^rvw.ipfw.edu/stulife/studnet 
_groups7alphaJist.htm 



November 12,2003 



Sports Briefs 



Player not identified 

Due to an 

men's basketball 

identified in the 

team picture. 

Eric Bergstrom, a 

7-foot center 

from MUaca, 

Minnesota, was 

not named in the photo. The 

Communicator apologizes for I 




Car giveaway 



ner. Why aren't 

Attend 
all IPFW home 

games and sign 



up ft 






u 



de in the "Great 

Campus Car 

Giveaway." Register at all IPFW 

home sporting events, if you're name 
is drawn, you will be placed in a 
grand prize drawing on March 1. 

spoxtz CALsnpj^i 

Women's Volleyball 

at Gates Center 

Friday-Saturday, Nov. 14-15: 

Division-1 Independent 
Championship 

Basketball 
at Gates Center 
Wednesday, Nov. 12: Women, 
IPFW vs. Bethel, Exhibition, 7 p.m. 

at Memorial Coliseum 
Thursday, Nov. 13: Men, IPFW vs. 
Harlem Globetrotters, Exhibition, 
7 p.m. 

Monday, Nov. 17: Men, IPFW vs. 
Marathon Oil, Exhibition, 7 p.m. 



Sports 



The Communicator Page 



Men's soccer team closes season with 2 losses 



: 



By Staff and News Services 

The men's soccer team- 
dropped two matches this weekend at 
the Wingate Inn/Sagebrush Classic 
hosted by Winthrop University in 
Rock Hill, South Carolina. 

IPFW entered the match with 
a 7-9-1 record but had only played one 
match since Oct. 23. The Mastodons 
had won two of their last three games 
before the event. Paul Otachel lead 
the team with five goals and three 
assists. Craig Vande Vusse and Andy 
Boesch each had four goals. 

In the first game of the day, 
Gardner-Webb shutout IPFW 1-0 
behind Joe Johnson's seven saves. 
Cartitos Ramirez scored the lone goal lor the Bulldogs 
minute, unassisted. 

Gardner-Webb improved to 10-9 and IPFW fell to 7-11-1. 

Three Mastodons were named to the Wingate Inn/Sagebrush 
All-Classic Team: goalie Peter Hachaj, and midfielders Trent Miller 
and Garrett Buck earned honors. 




, the 17th 



Photo provided 
The rest of the all-toumament team is as follows: Sergio 

Lozano, Todd Ulrich, Eli Strait (Gardner Webb); David Garry, Donald 

MacGregor and Andy Ross (Winthrop); Philip Cavicchia, Geoff 

Christman and David Boyd (Appalachian State). 

Micah Usry of Winthrop earned tournament defensive MVP 

honors while tea mm.it u Keun NkPiierson i-arned offensive MVP 




GET YOUR FREE STUDENT 
SEASON TICKETS TODAY! ! ! 




Pick-Up 
Locations 



Kettler Hall Basement 1 la-l:30p M-F 
Kettle* Hall Information Desk 

7a-9a M-Th 7a-Sp Fri 8a-Nn Sat 
Student Life Office, Walb Union 

8a-5p M-F 
Gates Sports Center, 2nd Floor 

8a-6p, M-F 



Volleyball 
from Page Twelve 

Bankowski assisted on 51 of IPFW's 64 kills. 

Sarah Miller led the Oakland Grizzlies' (5-17) attack with 16 kills. 

At 18-9, a 20-win season is now within striking distance for Hartley's 
Angels. 

"It is exciting because it will the first rime we have done this since 
being a Division-1 program. Everyone is taking it game by game. This 
could be a big deal," said Florio. "The );irls are working hard. We've 
got our sites set on 20. Hopefully we get to that soon," he added. 



The 2003 NCAA Division 1 Independent 




Volleyball Championship 


Frtday 


14 


Texas - Pan American vs. Northern Colorado 
10:30 AM 


Friday 


14 


IPFW vs. Utah Valley State 12:30 PM 


Friday 


14 


Texas A&amp;M Corpus Christi vs. Northern 
Colorado 3 PM 


Friday 


14 


Utah Valley State vs. Texas • Pan American 
5 PM 


Friday 


14 


IPFW vs. Texas A&amp;M - Corpus Christi 7 PM 


Saturday 


15 


Utah Valley State vs. Texas A&amp;M Corpus 
Christi 10:30 AM 


Saturday 


15 


IPFW vs. Northern Colorado 12:30 PM 


Saturday 


15 


Texas - Pan American vs. Texas A&amp;M Corpus 
Christi 3 PM 


Saturday 


15 


Northern Colorado vs. Utah Valley State 
5 PM 


Saturday 


15 


IPFW vs. Texas - Pan American 7 PM 



Tickets 
from Page Twelve 

against Toledo; and allow students to catch doubleheaders on three 'occa- 
sions with the women's basketball team and even a men's volleyball 
game in January. 

"There is a sense of excitement for the doubleheaders," said 
women's basketball head coach Bruce Patterson, "we want to get as 
many people as possible to watch the games." He added, "I like loud 
and rowdy crowds, even if they are against me. It is a lot more fun to 
play and to coach in front of them." 

There is a section at both the Coliseum and Gates Center desig- 
nated solely for IPFW students. The "Tar Pit", located behind the visit- 
ing team's bench, is where students are allowed to scream, jump, clap, 
paint themselves, dress up in blue and white, and mingle with others 
while cheering on the athletic teams. 

"There's a lot of energy", said McCIure, "Its really loud. We 
have to get into the heads of the other learns and referees." 

Junior Sandy Musser agrees, "It riles the entire crowd up more. 
I think the Tar Pit is a good idea." 

There are plenty seats available in the 2,800 capacity of the Gates 
Center and 12,000 of the Coliseum; so use the student ID card, sign-up for 
free season tickets, put grumbling tuition costs talk aside, come out, and 
enjoy IPFW athletics for free. 

"You will see some quality basketball," said Patterson, "I can't 
promise wins and losses, but we will work as hard as every competitor. 
We've got some goodplayers." 

NC State at Florida State winner has a shot at taking the con- 
Chuck Amato vs. Bobby Bowden. ference championship; the loser 
Two of the most dynamic coaches will place third. The Buckeyes are 
in college football square off. unstoppable at home. Prediction: 
Amato, QB Philip Rivers, and the Ohio State. 
Wolfpack are ^^^^^^^^_^^^^___^__ Michigan 




coming 



at Miami 

i I would hate t 

Syracuse right i 

The Hurricanes have lost 



The Bulldogs a 

rated and the Tigers aren't bal- unprecedented two games ii 

anced. Home team has the advan- and are looking for : 

tage here. Prediction: Georgia. take their frustrations out on. 

Purdue at Ohio Stale Unfortunately, the Orangemen are 

This is the most important Big Ten that someone. Prediction: Miami, 
game of the season thus far. The 



Page 14 The Communicator 



Sports 



November 12, 2003 



Free-for-all. Yeah, that's it. That's the ticket 



The fancy little identifie 



.ill ipfw home Bporting events, 

including the upcoming women's 

basketball season and women's 
volleyball tournament. 

Furthermore, present the ID card .it 
four locations on campus .ind 
receive free season basketball tiik 

eis inr all men's games find three 
women's at the Allen County W.ir 
Memorial Coliseum. 

According to IPFW 
Athletic Director Mark Pope, the 
use of the Coliseum will benefit 
both basketball teams, 

"Moving lo the Coliseum 

allows us to pui our producl on 

display in front of thousands in the 



for an "activi- 

e tuition that 

s lo grumble- 
each semester 
ive Matthews 

oming week, 
;rotters, Dick 
;oes on. This 
allows every 

ttend afhletic 



ol charge. 

"Since I have already paid 
for it, I'll probably go to every 
game," said sophomore Matt 
McClure, a communication major. 

There is a difference 
between men's tickets and any 
other IPFW sport because accord- 
ing to Brian Miller, Associate 
Director of Promotions, Marketing, 
and Sports Information at IPFW, 






i the 



v : ■/ 




the Student Life 
Office in the Walb 
Student Union from 
8-5 p.m. on week- 
days; and the second 
floor of the Gates 
Center from 8-6 p.m. 
Mondays through 
Fridays are all loca- 
tions to receive the 
season rickets. To 
order tickets via tele- 
phone, call Brian 
Miller at 481-6372. 
Along with 10 reg- 
games. 



then 



Ttick- 



Stude 



Howevi 
picking i 
the IPFW men's season tickets is a 
simple process. At each location 
on campus, four in all, present the 
student ID card and signup for the 
tickets. The basemen! in Kettler 



include two exhi- 
PHoto provided bition matches 

, ,,,. . il-t" p'i. against the Harlem 

° ' Globetrotters and 

Hall from 11-1:30 p.m. on week- Marathon Oil; allow the holder to 
days; the Kettler Hall information atlend a private party with Dick 
desk from- 7-9 a.m. Mondays Vitale before the Homecoming 
through Thursdays, 7-5 p.m. on game. 
Fridays, and 8-noon on Saturdays; Continue Tickets on page 11 




IPFW ready for 
Globetrotters 



By IPFW News Services 

The Harlem Globetrotters 
usher in a new season of IPFW 
men's basketball, at the 
Memorial Coliseum, on 

Thursday November 13th at 
7p.m. 

Now, these aren't your 
father's Globetrotters. You won't 
find Meadowlark Lemon or 
Curly Neai on the floor, dousing 
spectators with buckets full of 
confetti, or the old "hidden ball" 
trick. No, these 
i ilobei rotters are the 
elite traveling team 
bent on winning bas- 
ketball games. 

"We are pleased 
with the team we have 
put together this year, 
there were some diffi- 
cult player cuts due to 
the increased number 
of players that tried 
out during training 



blend of some very 
good rookies and vet- 
erans together to 

ensure this is the best 



'00), and Kareem Wright 
(Rutgers '03), and guards 
Darrick Martin (UCLA '92), John 
Lane (Savannah A&amp;E '01 ), 
Lazarus Sims (Syracuse '96), and 
center Ron Rollerson (Temple 
'02). 

These Globetrotters won't 
have as easy a time with IPFW as 
they do with, say, the 
Washington Generals, Pre-sea- 
son workouts for the Mastodons 
have been spirited, with many 
newcomers pushing veterans for 
playing time. 
The 'Trotters 
will have to 



i Globetrotter forv 
game. The IPFW i 
ay at 7 p.m. in an 



ird Mike St. Jutien leaps for a slam dunk durii 
en's basketball team takes on the Globetrotter: 
xhibition game. 



The 

include forwards 

Eugene Edgerson (Arizona '01), 
Alvin Jefferson (Auburn '97), 
Dalron Johnson (Nevada-Las 
Vegas '03), William Pippen 
(Middle Tenn. State '03), 
Shannon Swillis (Fresno State 
'01), Jermaine Tate (Cincinnati 




Pftofo provided Dakota 95-67. 
The eight 
game tour will continue through- 
out the month of November as 
the Harlem Globetrotters play 
some of the country's top college 
'teams, including Division-I 
Champion Syracuse University 
Tuesday on ESPN2. 



Lady B-ball 
downs rival in 
exhibition 

By Staff and News Services 
The Mastodons took the c 



for the I 



'this 



hit ion against cross-town rival 
Francis University and came out vit 
rious, 92-73. 

"We performed pretty w 
We did a lot of things we wanted to 
92 points is a lot," said head co, 
Bruce Patterson. 

"We put pressure on the ball. 
Got a lot of great looks and shot the ball 
pretty well," he added the third-year 
head coach. 

Despite his team's 19-point vic- 
tory, Patterson still sees room for 
improvement. 

" We committed way too many 
fouls and didn't rebound the ball as well 
as we should of," he said. 




Volleydons over- 
come slow start 



Photo provided 
Leading scorers for the today at 7 p.m at the Gates Center. 
Mastodons were senior forward Amy Patterson will use the contest to 

irlds (21) and junior center Verea gauge where certain players are and 
i needs to improve on. 



Bibbs (12). 

Junior forward Carrie Stine and 
freshman center Chivonn Keppeler led 
the Cougars both putting away 14 



"We i 






one plays the same amount of time. We 
are just trying to find out who is ready to 
play and who has grasped the system." 



By Staff and News Ser 

Sophomore Fabiana 
Souza blasted home a 
match high 23 kills in lead- 
ing IPFW to a 3-1 win over 
Oakland University,- last 
Wednesday night at the 
Gates Center. 

The 'Dons, i who 
stretched their current win- 
ning streak to nine games, 
dropped the Grizzlies by 
the scores of 26-30, 30-19, 
30-21, and 30-25. 

IPFW started out 
slowly, getting out-hit by 
Oakland .286 to .185 in the 
first, but put together hit- 
ting games of .432, .361, in 



'ices games two and 
three to take a com- 
fortable lead. 

"The turning point 
was losing game one. 

'.Losing a game after 
Sunday's big win is a wake 
up call. That is what the 
team took it as," said 
Assistant coach Steve 

Souza added 20 digs 
to her stat-line for a double- 
double. Nicole Howell 
added 12 of her own. 
Junior setter Lindi 

Continue 
"Volleyball" on page 11 



