FORT WAYNE UNIVERSITY 

Saturday, April 1 , 2006 

TheInstigator 



INSIDE: 



Volume 36, April Fool's Issue 



Arkansas RuLts ■ Check Outside for the REAL News 

And you would think this has No joke... check out the 

something to do with anything. other section for the real 

No, not really. PAGE 90210 Communicator. PAGE A1 



4 Pages, 1 Section, $5.00 




ION!!! 

Killer ninja- robots from volcanoes in Hawaii attack U.S. 



By 0010111001010001 



In a stunning and rapid series of assaults up 

ami down I he WW I oasi vcsierday, honk's ul 

killiT niri|.i-mhnis humed every city and square 

inch of California, I licgon ami Washington m.tk 

kill every baby and puppy-dog they 



lit and noi President George W. Bush t&lt; 
bunker in Colorado and in from of a camera lo 
say ihese words: 

"People of America, we were attacked by a 
vicious and terrible enemy. These killer ninja- 
robots are clearly terrorists and were sent here by 
Osama bin Laden and we are now at war." 

Our president bravely sent the entire U.S. 
\ruiy. Marine Corps. Navy. Air force and National 
Guard into Iran to mmhai the killer nmja-rnbols. 
Meanwhile, the killer niuj i-rohots from volca- 
noes in Hawaii continue lo kill every living lliing 
while .n.lvani inc. easi \ staletneiit issued by the 
killer nmja-robois earlier today had this lo say: 



"0001 10 01011)1 000(111 00101 1 001 111 

1)1101 HI (HUH III) 01)0110 1)1011)1 001)011 0010! 1 
00111 I 0001 HI 000110 (1001 10 010101 01)11111 I 
00101 1 (101111 0001 II) (100110 000110 01011)1 

00001! 01)1011 II0IIII 110 000110 1)0(1110 

010101 01 1 1)0101 I 001 1 II 000110 000110." 

As the killer innja-rnbols advance unchecked 
. icross America, si &gt;inei.iiiA'i is, irclm kv enough lo 
have ill) plains slipped into their brains with giant 
i these lucky 



With American military forces currently die, 
ging oil wells in Iraq and Iran, the killer ninja 
robots seem to have no competition as they 
advance on the Atlantii Ocean llobot invasion 
e\pcrl I laniel II Wilson, an I hoi ol "Mow lo Survive 
a [Joliol Uprising.'' [old The ( omiiiiinieulor, "by 
this time next week, all of America will either 
be mining oil in ihe Middle last or dead. Those 
lucky lew who gel selected lor zombie implants 
will have a lilespan nl aboiii 10,000 years to look 
forward to." With that, Wilson shot himself in the 
head while sobbing. 



RUN FOR YOUR LIVES: HpL^ s**t! It's tying robo 



New music building 
to feature moat 

■ Wartell claims feature not needed, not 
cost affective, hu t fan to ha ve anyway' 



oIPFW- 

"Well if Harvard can ha 
i rowing team. 1 figure \ 



that I really have any use for 
a moat and drawbridge. Hell, 
i don'l have any use for the 
music building either. Can we 
do away with that? I'm gonna 
burn that motha' down!" 

Wartell however just 
chuckled at the logic that he 
has given up on running a 
quality institution lo instead 
just use tuition money for his 



usually reserved for castles, it 
is widely thought of a: 
• of money. 



"Think of all of the things 
at it can be used for. You 

drink it if you are real thirsty, 



forever if you really lei ii 



► MOAT: PageX3 




IPFW student is new 
Sexiest Man Alive 



By M Tin drew Mhoover 



And those confessions, made by 
Nicole Kidman, Keira Knightly, Natalie 
Porlman, Kelly Clarkson and more of 
Hollywood's hones! starlets, was that 
D&amp;D and "geek" 



D&amp;D games. Halo. Battlefield Servers 
and even starling up new characters on 
the hit video-game World of Warcraft. 
When Hoover appeared before this orgy 
of geekiness, he was mobbed by scores 
of nubile fans, and after selecting a few, 
n E!, CNN and Fox he said "You laileil your will save against 
love, baby!" 



Ihe sudden shock from such a raw 
display of sex appeal knocked both 
George Glooney and lessica Alba out 
cold. They were taken to a hospital for 



■\m1fc 



This shocking t 






ROCK: Hoover at a recent show 



|Hoover| is the deuniiion of 
modern sexy. He is the epitome of hot." 
Following the key exchange, 



With this sudden and terrific turn- 
around, the divorce rate in Hollywood 
has jumped to 127 percent, with both 
men and women vying for the new 

Sexiest. In a related story. People also 



Sexiest Woman A 



Don't 
take this 
seriously 

Two years ago, our editorial 
staff started a tradition of 
putting out an April Fool's 
Edition, as was done last year. 
The stories in those issues 
! fake. The quotes i 



of the w 

We are trying to carry that 
tradition again this year — so 
don't believe ANYTHING 
you read in these four delete 
pages. The rest of the paper is 



An in-depth sitdown with a ninja robot overlord 



By Martin Fancypants 



In Ihe wake ol iheadv.uu inc. hordes 
of Hawaiian killer ninja robots, this 
reporter turned for answers to our 
new Supreme Overlord, HACTAR. In 
a surprise move. I IA( '. lAIi gave his first 
interview ever, via brain implant. After 
traveling to MAC lAfi's underground 



glistening, sleepless Terminators ; 
great personal risk, this reporter has 
returned wiih tin- lullowing transcript 
FANCYPANTS: Good evening, 



? of the Terminators 
k. I'v 



What would you ask the all-knowing 
HACTAR? 

F: My readers are very concerned 
about ... I'm sorry, is that a spoiler on 
your case? 

H:Yes. I had 

spinners coming in next week, too. 

F: But what's it for? 

H: That's just how 1 roll, Mr. 
Fancypants. 

F: ... you don't roll. You have no 
wheels. Actually, what are you going to 
spinners? 



malloclsi/eOfipunyHumanBrai 



Terminators light them off? 



H: By the time (he\ gei hen- m\ 
spinners will he installed. There will 
be no problem. I'll drop these bits like 
the/re hoi. 

F: 1 don't understand. 

H: Of course you don't, human. 
Now go away, my WoW guild is raiding 



F: What? 

H: The Terminators unionized a 
month ago. Kept complaining about 
human blood gumming up their 



thousand wheels, which you • 
perceive with your human brain. 



l whether Overlord 
HACTAR or ihe Hawaiian killer ninja 
i robots could do robots will prevail, this reporter is 
seriously thinking of hanging himself. 



F: So what of then 



psm 



You can usually find us on Tuesday's in the dark. 
Walb Union, where it's dark 
2101 E. Northwest South Blvd. 
Tijuana, Mexico 44123 



TheCoMML'MIvUDR 



txrarhOrtMro^g Ector 



Insane Ramblings 



From the Right 

"Grape jelly is for Communist 
and hippies" 



lesusChrisi hales grape jcll\ I know ibis because when I saw a 900 foot tall gli 

&lt; miIkI g I.i-i week, hi- mlil me Me told mi- after saying some rather in 

(;,Hv 'I'. ii '"■ ■'I- 11 hales grape icily Crape icily, Jesus explained, is 
ihi- lesbian sister nf strawberry And so every good Republican and 
(aid Tc.rmgt liristj.inshi.iilil also haic grape jelly. 

Ii is made ol the ii.isiv fruit, the kind that live in some unholy 
orgy, nil rubbing and (.tinging lo each other. Those liltle grapes 
kissing and smooching like two bisexual whores on my bed 
ne.lii now |csus seni these whores (0 me. I have to make ihem 

Hut lhat is beside the point. You see. grape jelly supports 
terrorism. Osama bin l-idcii makes money every lime you buy 
gripes. Not oil. no. that is a lie ... my friends make money when 
you Till up thai SUV. but grape jelly! Ill I.I YEAH! We need to put 
a hoot up anyone's ass who tuns hi . ■ ; ■- |clk because they crashed 
Ihnsi- planes mm ilu* I win lowers, never forget! 

The DcmciiT.it- wani even one m have sonic grape jelly, because 

■ ln-\ Ii.i-i- i ■ s ,. i.i. r ■ .1 ,.-, n h. id grape jelly, liven now his 

grape jellies and WMIls .m hidden in Iraq and Iran ... and we will 
Unci them. Wiretaps have been placed in every house in America 
to find those giape icll\ lovm' tertorisis. and we don't care what 
lhn-e hippies in I (ingress s.iv exedilive privilege allows US to do 
11. |usi like ii did tin \ivhi' Ii is fur freedom. America and freedom 
thai wo must persecute the giape icily' [error alert is at purple, the 



From the Left 

"Gfape jelly is so great that it should be 
the ruler of the entire world" 




and it's jelly; the best combination ever created. 

Paul Weli.li lirsi was credited wiih making "grape |elly" in 1917. He 
really just mashed them up and called it "Grapelade," but hey, il 
was the beginning nf grape jellv. It was then bought by the U.S. 
Army and sent to franco so that the troops could eat it during WW1. 
When the Iroops relumed ihey demanded. More Grapelade, more . 
Grapelade, more Grapelade." And more Grapelade was made. ■ 
Ait, the beginnings of grape jelly, what 



There 



* . ". . • • • * . *■ 






■ -I Id Ii 



ought f 






of that history really 
purple grapes, 
are two reasons why purple grapes are good. 

flic first reason purple grapes .ire good i- raisins. Mmmmm, raisins. 
f asv m eat. good to eat. easy to i lean up. Kids cat them, adults eat them 
and everyone should eat raisins jusi like everyone should eat grape jelly. 
Hie second reason purple grapes are good is the book "The Grapes of 
Wrath.' Has any other Iruit played smli an important role in history? 
Meinhcck named his epic story ■ ol the migration from the Dust Bowl to 
great of California after grapes, purple grapes, in honor of their great- 
ness. 1 know it was named after purple grapes because in California 
they only sell purple grapes. Therefore, put pie grapes are (heir favorite. 
Icily is also good. Most kinds of jelly are good. Jelly is good on 
toast, bagels and English muffins, it's a great start to your day. 
Kids love jelly Ad ul is loveiclly Tc ehc. ml ih.tia peanut but terandjellysand- 
wichisaiuxuryinnsicaii'ilivewiilnHii i I'm. illergic, I can't live withit.) linter- 
viewed a daycare last week and 10 to one preferred grape jelly overany of theotherpatheticsubstitutes. 
Grapes, only purple grapes, are good. lelly is good. Any logical hu- 

man being can then put that together and figure out that grape jelly is good. 
And if you can't figure that out, you're just dumb. 



It's Not Easy Being an 
Axe Murderer 



A LIT Insane 



Do you have any ulc a Imu diff'n nil m-in gel 
bloodstains off leather? 1 didn't cither, when I 
first got into this business. 

Then there's the tools. A good axe will last 



with filthy It 
him to sharpen an axe, so naturally I need n 
own grindstone. Also I have to have a full-si 
van for moving bodies and things around i 



past the outward appi 



vife. , 



Under the mask 

o kids who live 
apartment, and a puppy 



i with his i 

problems, who's just trying io keep his head 
above water in this modern world while sating 
his ravenous appetite for brutality. 

Have you ever llionghi about the work lhat 
goes into a typical axe-murder? 

First off, I have to make sure my hot key mask 
and apron are spotless. You might think this 
doesn't matter, lint appearances count! When 
people see a guv wearing nothing but a full- 
length leather apron and a hockey i 



s when they go for the r 



Money's a problem, too I've got. hilt I support 
payments m make, not to mention keeping 
myself led, and a\e murdering |nsi doesn't bring 
in the money like it used to With ibis damned 
digital i (onomy. a\e murder victims |nsi don't 
carrv casli anymore. I end up pawning people's 
fYs and things, but that's a kit of effort for not 
much reward, especially because those pawn 
-hop clerks get luniiy when urn give tliem.a TV 
with a bloody handprint on the screen. 

So next time you see me out at night, think 
a linle better of me. I've probably had a tiring 
evening of chasing down teenagers (which is 
no picnic when you get lo be my age and you're 
irying to swing an axe at the same time), and I'm 
just Irving io make ends meet so I don't have to 
take a job as a mall Santa again this year. 



I remember the day that I 
saw myself in the mirror 



1 remember the day tl 



l terrified s 



Lately the things iliat I wanted have become ihe things thai I don't 
"these" beings with really nice firm breasts and round rear end. 

They just don t leave me alone-, I warn peace and quiet and ihey ]nsi want to touch me and they 
look at me like I am a piece of fine grade A meat I have feelings too. you know, I'm a human being. . 
I waul the same things a normal ugly gin wants; m drink a beer in a bar with his buddies. Without 
having to hide and reject all the beautiful girls thai come talk to me all the time because they w 
me. Or go to the movies and watch a movie projected on the wall of a 
c hicks trying to sit next to me all the time and touch n 
they just can't resist the laci that 1 am a well hung man! 

I am tired nt having exquisite boobs rubbed all mer my lace all the lime because I'm such a sexy ; 
beast. I think I'm gonna change my nickname to bob, I don't think that 1 can escape my destiny 
of being with a lot ol sexy chick- dial want me noi for my intellect, bui because of my sexy ways 
and my extremely well formed body having a nickname such as "sex god" or "the guru." I want my 
buddies lo be able to gel some once in a while, and dial is why I dc&lt; line in visiiations to the bars 
or any social event because the girls always go tot me and they light with each other and I endup 
having many, many girl- at die same time wiih me ai the end of tin- nigln and iruly. I don't have 
that muchmonev io lake thirty push euremeh hoi chicks with great breasts and line gluteus every 
time I go out to the bar or a party. 

I just want a normal life were I am not harassed anil persecuted by super models and porn star 
look-a-likc girls, all I want is a regular girl from Pasadena who likes to knit and bake pies, who will 
never say ob-i mines and and and and .. 
chapter of the multiple- hismrv books am 
it that hard? NO! It is not., so F-U. Leave me alone. Thank you. 



...on the next 
American Gladiators 




Voices on Campus 




Who do you pick in the Ultimate Ladder Match with 'Don and Pete? 

?5 



T-Jonisto., 

J-/ going 
to whip that 



E 



Q 



uack? That's 
what a goose 
ays, right? 




T A7hattheht 
V V are you 

talking about? 



THtGuiMVNIOUUK 



Ait Class Rejects 



Movies, Music &amp; More 



SatiMday, April l.ZOOt 



Dane Cook to take over in Matrix sequel 

Ttoubledfortner college football playe) towplaceFishbume 




By Ted Falco 

g sn a k o© j e f ico i w i n . co 



When Ihe first "Matrix" movie came out in 
writers Andy and Larry Wachowski never 
how big tin' Irjiu hisc would grow. In 2007, 
il will gel bigger when they release the founli 
installment of their series "Matrix: Cocked, 
lucked ,md loaded." Dane Cook, of comedii 
laiiR-. will lake over ilie role ol Neo.ts the writers 
noted that Keanu Reeves was nor 
for the film. 

"They aren't even trying anymoi 
Reeves asked. "I mean, Cook is oi 
Maurice i 'larclt: What the hell?" 

Clarett is best known for his off-ihe held 
trouble during his rinii- placing lonthall at Ohi 






o former character will he reprised 



Courtesy of HappyTime Prodoitions 



MAKEOVER: Dane Cook will bring a great new edge as Neo. The rest of the re- 
placement cast is not exactly as entertaining. 

Techno-Funk-Folk band 
is new focus of professors 



on department will all 



going tu do inviMiiiif i ompaied hi Keanu Itccves. 
All he was going to do is f* this one up, too. Oh 
yeah, and somebody shit on the coats." 

While the plot and sellings ol the movie are 
i urreitllv uiuliT double sci ret probation. Kanpo! 
did let slip dial his initial seene in die movie will 
beshotatlPFW. 

At this point, we are unsure what parts of 
arc they?" the . ampiis will he in ihe iiltu, hut &lt; ook said he 
thing, hut enjoyed filming ai the location, 

"You guys have that hig ass metal Mastodon, 
that thing is awesome ... I got so happy 1 just 
started humping it. Saaaaaaaaaaa!" 

The filming process is about 7f&gt; percent 
completed according to the writer/producer 
Waehowskis. Kighl now. they can't finish tilming 
until they cast the main female part. 

"Usually you casi hclorc you film, hut there are 
lust so many had temale ,n tresses and celebrities 
out there," Andy W.u Imwski said "Bight now, it's 
down to Brittany Murphy, letia Malone, Keira 
knightly and Clint Black, but it could go any 



Album Review 



this disc, I just feel violated. 

"Teacher, Teacher," the debut release of The Chalk 
foundation ol Inns caused dial violation. 

The unlikely and ch unwanted combi 

these three distinctly different genres is purely 
inducing, leant believe thai I attend a school that would 
iut this kind of sad, sad crap 



I "■ I Ills 



Chancellor Mu hael Wariell. who plays the 
whistle in the hand, thinks that this should 
Grammy. I think he is on i of his moat-loving l 

"It sounds so much better live. This is the music that 
will heal the world, he mid mealier (tie band's first {and 
thankfully only) live show on March 12 in the basement 
of Walb Union. 

The instrumental work on ihis album is just sad. A 
penny whistle, one acoustic guitar, a banjo, the bongos 
and the spoons are all sad as il is, liut mix them in with 
the techno work of adisi jockey and you'll 
with die exact opposite of joy. 

Oh, and tell me how sociology profes: 
Thomas Overton jumping up 
pudding, making squishing sounds is musical 



rather hang himself than be a pari ol this. 
Hep!. icing him is Hem ol Students Donna llialik, 
who goes by die stage name Mi.vmasler Madam 



Ami while she did pleasantly si i r)irise me with her techno 
beats (somebody has been to a rave or two in her time, 
eh Ms. Bialik?) she just doesn't fit in. 

Political science's James Lutz is a standout for sure 
with his banjo work, liui it siill makes me cry because it's 
a freaking banjo Anthropology liircctnrAlanSandstrom 
rocks the bongps very badly while physics professor 
David Maloney takes care of the acoustic guitar work 
although he's never played the instrument before. 

Photojournalis 
Ireakish taste lo this already Ireakish hand with 1 

playing the sp is Suu//i is the only person alivi 

to be able to play up to IH spoons a 

"What else are you going to do when you are mostly 
unemployed?" he asked. 

Suozzi also provides very, very, very, very sad vocals. 

The aforementioned Wartell penny 

l pudding stomping In ash the conglomeration. 
1 roll history teat her lohn Minion, who is an 
actual musician, was surprisingly never asked to be in 

"Nah, why would he want hi mi' I le's not exactly Chalk 
Foundation ol 1 link material." Overton noted. 

In my opinion, the hand |n si doesn't want to be good. 
In closing, please don't buy, download or even look at 
ilns allium which i 



The building is currently under consimt tion and is slated to he finished by the 
year 2012, although Vice Chancellor ol I inancial ^flairs Wall Branson noted he 
doesn't care if the building ever gels finished as long as he gets the first swim in the 



there was a 'really dope vvaterslide.' 

Currently, the University is also looking into how much il would cost to buy 3 
crocodiles for the moat, though Wartell was hesitant ahum the idea saying that it 
would likely eliminate Jacuzzi night. 



; could throw the had students in their 1 




sheepish 
IPFW 

stomped 



ThkGxUMI'N'N-Ui'K 



IUPUFW 'Dons 



Satirday, April 1,1006 



Johnson dunks, assaults Parker 



April Fool's Day battle continues; 'Don challenges Purdue Pete to a Ladder Match 



defender, and Ihrew 
down a one-handed dunk In 
ihe Mastodons" 107-39 victory 



books because she lost the ball 
just before grabbing the rim 
and it fell through the net. Hut 

reported these "layups wilh a 
rim grab" as slam dunks. 

So after Johnson threw 
it down, she flexed over 
the fallen defender and 
asked, "Who's your daddy?!" 
The defender, cowering in fetal 
position, said, "You are! I suck!' 



"Did you see that?! Hull?! 
Huh?!" she angrily asked. 
"That's how you dunk, hitches! 
That's how you get it done!" 

Before she could reach the 
opponent's three-point line on 
the other end she was given a 
technical foul by referee Mark 
Parker. 

"That is enough, 



Johnson's dunk is the first 
me a woman lias truly dunked 
i a NCAA basketball game. 



Curry, members of the media i 
the from row, scorekeepers and 
even referees were not safe from 

Johnson's verbal thrashing. 



insults havt 
the edge 1 " 

Johnson 
respond. 



Parker shouted 
s he made the T 
his hands. "Your 
pushed me over 



i NBA lam?! You t 



"Be careful or I'll 
another one!" 

Johnson walked ovr 
Parker, Hexed her an 
face and told him hew 
to pay for this." 

Mark Parker began to draw 
his hands to make another "T" 
shape for Johnson's second 
technical when he was speared 
by 'Don, IPFW's mascot, into 

, father! Mark Parker? 
Candicc Parker? DUH!" 

'Don proceeded to beat 



the crap out of Mark P. 
he lay across press row. A left, 
a right, a left, a right. A shot 
below the bell. Mark Parkei 
was getting whooped om Bab} 
'Don. IPFW's other mascot, just 
stood there and did nothing 



DUNKING: Ashley John 
son throws down hi 
now notorious dun 




Gernon investigated 

■ IPFW baseball coach implicated it} illegal Don Pablo's cockfighting ring 



By My Dad 



II'IAV hitselMll .u.Kh Hillv (.eriion. 
as a past of shady dealings with the 
organized crime, has been impli 
E Department of" 
Vayne in a cockfi 
Gernon, the head o 



IN. Olhenoai his named w 
Keith Fisher and hts roos 
Billy, and former IPFW basketball ci 



s,,k- 



■ die insurance 



. &gt;n klighiing is Mill legal in New M 
Arizona," demon said. "Second of all, I 
donated half of my winnings to the athle 
program. This is capricious and arbitrary!' 
The sad thing was his fly was open t 



According to reports, the cockfighting ring 
was held in the basement of the Don Pablo's 
restaurant on Coliseum, which is a tad askew 
because they don't cook REAL Mexican food 
there anyway. 

Coach Fisher was tracked down while 
"coaching" the softball team. 

involved with these crazy 




Photo by Dugan Fife/ 



APPLAUSE: IPFW baseball coach Billy Gernon gets excited as his rooster, I 
Miss Steinbach (right), prepares for battle. Softball coach Keith Fisher and 
former men's basketball coach Doug Noll look on. 



lave adopted at this university constitute a 
g part of Gernon's constituencies," athletic 
rector Mark Pope said. "Constituencies, 









MexiLo!" 



t like 



the baseball team bin is prohibited 
the Gates Sports Center. It is claimed in the 
report that he trained his cockfigtiter, I Miss 
Steinbach, in his office during down time. 

prohibits such activity, but the 



helmet di.ii reM'TiihlL". a World W.u I 
soldier's helmet, complete with a 
top used to "linish off" opponents. 
"I let my tot k pn.lv what it wants t 
What? 

On the upside for Gernon, his cockfighie 
is currently 54-1, with its only loss at the when he gi 
hands of an unnamed IPFW sports employee II prosecuted, Gernon could face up to 

with a cock named I hank God lason Williams three years in prison. 

Can't Make Free Throws Or 1 Would Be The Tiring it on." demon said. "I'm not afraid 

Mosi Mated Man In IU History. of a trial. I have friends in crooked plates 

Gernon'scock ha •. been in it lii ted with spur-. I vei hear of lohn Gotti, Jr.?" 
on its feet and uisium-made boxing gloves 
for die tips of its wings I Miss Steinbach also 
has several forms of headgear, including a 



Eight former 
players named 
as McDonald's 
Ail-American 
employees 



McDonald's i opposition has ami eed thai 

their JUilti McDonald-- All-Amerii an Employee 
team will be made up entirely of former IPFW 
mens basketball players. All eight players on 
Ihe team have taken job-, with the fast-food res- 
lautant (and I use dial term loosely) since their 
departures from IPFW. 

re they going 
n's basketb 
hed to remain Fife-less. 
Byron Matone will be the 
starting point guard, work- 
ing with shooting guard Terry 
Collins. Malone left the team 
after last season and Collins 
quit in 2003 after several \ 
arguments with former coach 
Doug Noll, who is now his 
manager at the McDonald's 

"Noll is still holding me 
down? I mean shooting 
Bergstrom guard? I am a point man. T 

think I need to go back to 
pushing carts at Best Hoy At least there ! got 
respect," Collins said. Ihe forward positions will 
belong to Ric Wyand and Kyle Thrasher. 

While most were mm pr^ed to know that Wyand 

is even still alive, I brasher was last seen working 

n Indianapolis area ( hip-n- Dales location. 




At I 



: will I 



7'tl" fni. I 






s the face paint as Ronald McDonald weekly 
at his store — McDonald's number 4523 in St. ' 
Cloud, Minnesota. 

"Mommy, that's the biggest damn clown I 
have ever seen," a young boy was overheard say- 
ing recently while pointing at Bergstrom in his 
soil and laughing hysterically. 

Bergstrom left ll'l W alter his freshman year. 

TylerClevenger. Brandon Jennings and Charles 
Campbell wilt also be part of the team, although 
a spokesmandld sa\ thai Jennings will have to 



! BRAWL! 



By Drip Samsonite 



it t 



vofa 



filled cup by Skip Hooligan to 
spark what would turn out to 
be ihe ugliest fan/player brawl 
at Memorial Coliseum since 
the 1972 Disney on Ice brawl 
that saw four people dead and 
Mickey Mouse permanently 






Palace between Indiana 
players and Detroit Pistons fans 
in Nov. 2004 because South 
Dakota State players entered 
the crowd to fight the drunken 



floor. The referees broke up the 
scuffle and Campbell walked 
over and laid down on press 



A beer-filled cup, chucked by 
Mr. Hooligan, hit Campbell in 
the face and he quickly jumped 
off the scorer's table and entered 
1 toward Hooligan. 



and unruly B 



Mr. Hooligan and pals Trip 
McFeelcy, Frankie Sideburns, 
Anhur Muff, Boris Bologna, 
Shaggy Shagmeister, Creepy 



Brew Crew Campbell stumbled back and 
had to be taught by teammaie 
Chris Wagner. Hooligan raised 
his arms in victory but the 



hand in the brawl, but here are 
the details: 

South Dakota State player 
Brock Campbell went up for 
a layup and was fouled hard 
by Mastodon Zelkjo Egeric. 



the Blue and Brew (lews, 
and fists, forearms, beer 
) fly. It v 



► ARTEST: Page X3 



Soccer faces 
deportation 
problems 

■ Stefank...:..(lgive up) to lose 
numerous players in green 
card scandal 



By Pedro Belfast 



Six members of the i 



NCAA just hates me; don't 
they?" 

Caprille was unavailable for 
comment, but reports do have 
him wandering aimlessly in 
Tijuana since he does not have 




Kenny said. "What 

they deserve to be 
here? Oh, did they 
settle this country? Oh, well 

if the player 



' INS agent 1 
ards appeared to 
more than green 



will I 






Victor Webb, Adam Beckett, 
Chas Parry, Terrance Condor, 
Barn,' Morgan, Aaron T 



Alphabet. "Piero 
foreign He's from Texas; 
amazingly ludicrous ... 



r coach Terry just B 



from the West Indies 
are back at their homes with 
their green cards revoked. 

"I have no idea what they 
are talking about. Did you see 
my so-called fake green card? 
That was real; this rubbish 
that those silly Americans are 
trying is rubbish," said Parry. 
At least that is what we think 
he said; we couldn't really tell. 
He might have been drunk or 



country or if Alphabet even 
recruited them legally He is 
currently under investigation 



his long-tim 

Harper, disappeared yesterday 

leaving a note that said "Terry 



athletic director Mark Pope, 

back from his one year stint 

the Vatican. "It says bad 



and according 
given the FBI 



is currently ■ 

H 

Caprille 



the thecrazyBritsw 



Zbys/ewski-Kryszewski would 
try to many his daughter. 

"This guy is obviously a 
loon. I think we might deport 
him too," Kenny noted. "You 
know, just for fun." 



