Students sound off page 2 



The Communicator 



VOL. XXIII, ISSUE 5 



Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne 



September 26, 1991 



.NFOGRAPHS 



Senate chooses vice president 



Lowtonco of Arable 
As pari of Iho history courso in 
Ottoman History iho department ol his- 
tory cordially Invites you lo a presenta- 
tion ol tho classic award winning Mm 
Lawronea of Arabia, starring Peter 
OTool. ol 7:00 p.m tonight In Nell 
il Hall on Iho campus ol IPFW. 
Admission is Iroo 

Mr Alex Kyrou, visiting lecturer In 
history, a spoclalist in modern near 
eastorn history and Instructor In 
Ottoman history, will Introduce the !ilm 
and load the question-and-answer 
iod al Iho conclusion ol the Dim. 
Lawronco ol Arabia portrays the career 
loading llgure ol modern Arab 
nationalism and is specially relevant 10 
the recent Persian Gull War and the 
moaning ol Arab nationalism in Near 
Eastern History. 

Foreign fludy opportunity 
There will bo a general Informational 
mooting on tho Oversoas Study Pro- 
grams ol Indiana Univorsity on Mon- 
day, Sept. 30, in CM 264 Irom, noon 
until 1:15 pm. IPFW studonts, regard- 
less ol their major, who ore interested 
in studying ovorseas are urged to 
attend this meeting. For further Infor- 
mation, call tho Modern Foieign Lan- 
guages office, 48 1-6836 

Women wrllort group 
IPFW Women Writer's Support 
Group will havo regular meetings the 
lirst end third Monday ol oach month 
starting October 7, 6:00 to 7:15 p.m. In 
Classroom Medical building, room 134. 
Now mooting 
'Creating Change' is the October 
1 2th topic ol tho Indiana NOW (Nation- 
al Organisation lor Women* State con- 
ference. Registration information may 
be obtained by visiting the Center lor 
Women and Hoturning Adults, Walb 
Union. G-25 

Financial aid opportunity 
Applications lor financial assistance 
Irom tho Raker Foundation Assistance 
Program are available at the Center for 
Women and Returning Adults, Walb 
Union, G-25 oi the Financial Aid Ottico 
in Kotiler. Tho deadline dale is Oci 
bor t 

lYG-Fort Wsyno 
lYG-Fort Wayno is a social, support 
and educational group for self-identi- 
fied gay and lesbian youth under 21 
years old Moetings begin Tuesday, 
Oct. 1, and continue the tirst and third 
Tuesday evenings of each month For 
more information, call 1-800- 
TEEN (IYG Goy and Lesbian Youth 
Hotline). 

For more inloimabon regarding the 
local chapter, address all correspon- 
dence lo: IYG, PO Box 13527, Fort 
Weyno, IN 4$«9-3527. 

The Inlormolion lor this announce- 
ment Is provided by the Co-Choirpor 
sons ol lYG-Fort Woyno, Randy Ross 
man and Jim Cates. In addition to the 
address above. Randy Rossman car 
be contacted at 424-0844 (AIDS Tast 

BCC Meeting 

The Black Collegian Caucus will bo 
having a meeting open to all students 
on Monday Sept. 30, at noon in Walb 
Memorial Union Room 222 

International Students' 
Organization presents 
"A View ot the World" 

Video Tapes ol Cities, States and 
Countries ol the World 

The first tape will be shown on Octo- 
ber 4. The title is Moscow and St. 
Petersburg (Lonningrad) and will be 
shown In Walb MemohaJ Union Room 
£24-228 from noon until 1 00 p it 
are welcome and admission is Ire' 
Hittory Film 

Berkeley in the '60'$. a documentary 
movie about the massive protest am' 
reform movement that onginated at the 
Univorsity ot California at Berkeley 
during the Vietnam war and spread " 
embrace the whole social order ol 
American cellule will be shown in s 
free presentation on Thursday, Oct 3, 
in Ni.'ii Recital Hall (Room 101) at 7 00 
p.m. Professor Louis Cantor will 
vido the introduction to the movii 
lead discussion following The r 
is being presontod by the History 
Department as part of course T425 
Tho Protest Movement ot the 1960s 
taught by Cantor, 

Pit Auditions 

Auditions will bo conducted Sunday, 
Oct. 13. at 2 p.m. in Walb Memorial 
n Ballroom lor Candida a joint 
production of Purdue-Indiana Theatre 
(PIT) and the Fort Wayne Philharmon- 



Larry L Life, IPFW associate profes- 
sor ol theatre, is director and choroog- 
rapher. David S Crowe, assistant pro- 
lessor ol the Philharmonic, is music 
director. 

Lifo and Crowo seeK a cast ot about 
30 singers, dancers, and actors I 
Voltairo's slory ol Candida with the 
rich, opera house score by Leonard 
Bernstein. 

Auditioners should prepare a song 
Irom musical theatre, open 
operetta, an accompanist will be pro- 
vided There will also be movement 
audition There are some non-singing 
roles, but Life prefers "that everyone 
sing and everyone move * He advises 
reading the story by Voltaire before 
auditions. 

Candida will be staged at the Per- 
forming Arts Center lor three perfor- 
mances only, Nov. 22-24. 

For more inloimation about audi- 
tions, contact Life, (21 9) 481-6551 



By Jim Walker 
Managing Editor 

In IPFW student senate action last 
Thursday night, John Weisenburger 
defeated Seemab Rasheed 6-5 to lake 
the president pro tempore position. 

Weisenburger fills the spot left open 
by Lorl Bishop who was vice president 
of student legislation but resigned in 
September. 

During the meeting. Student Body 
President Krislina Fra2ier-Henry point- 
ed out several times lhai the election 
was lor president pro tempore ot the 
senate. Weisenburger was elected pro 
tempore and then boosted immediately 
lo vice president of legislation as that 
position was empty. 

A new senate president pro-tempore 
will be selected al the senate meeting 



tonight. 

The selection ol a new vice president 
was the only matter ol business 
addressed at the meeting. The senate 
had been In limbo for the two weeks 
prior to the meeting because of ques- 
tions concerning the legality ol opening 
the meeting without a vice president ol 
legislation. 

With the selection ol Weisenburger, 
the lop two positions ol student govern- 
ment were tilled without popular vote. 
Frazier-Henry was moved up to stu- 
dent body president early In the school 
year alter Ihe elected president. Dan 
Pulley, resigned. 

Student government adviser, Marian 
Adair, told the senate belore Ihe meet- 
ing that she thought the selection of a 



new vice president of legislation should 
go before Ihe student body in a general 
election, 

'On behalf of administration and the 
students, I'd like to comment on Ihe 
sad situation the senate is in,* Adair 
said. 'Students do not leel lhal they 
are being represented fairly by this 
senate I encourage you to take the 
election of pro tempore to the stu- 

Adair said it takes only one disgrun- 
tled student to lake an inside election 
to campus appeals court. This body 
could then review the actions ol senate 
and possibly consider an alternative 
action, she said. 

Tonight's senale meeting is sched- 
uled to begin at 8 p.m. in Walb Memori- 
al Union. 




Students reminisce to the sounds of the 70s with Redcliff. The band, which performed Monday at the Fort for 
Midday Diversion, played oldies from groups such as Crosby, Stills and Nash; and The Eagles 
Pftoro by Mark Daley 



Enrollment rises 



Record broken for fifth straight year 



By Marc Jernlgan 

Staff Writer 

This fall IPFW continues an eleven- 
year trend ol increasing enrollment. 
The official figures have been released 
by Ihe registrar, Jack Dahl. For five 
straight years actual enrollment has 
increased. The student population is 
now 12,077. Out ol 12,077 IPFW stu- 
dents, 5,000 are full-time. 

IPFW also gained 1,700 students 
who have never been in college before 
this year. Dahl called them beginning 
students. Of these beginning students 
1.200 are attending IPFW full-time. 
According to Dahl, these beginning stu- 
dents are a reason that the freshman 
class now contains 5.058 students, an 
increase of 226 or 4.7 percent over last 



year. This lall IPFW set another record 
enrollment, Hispanic and African-Amer- 
ican students enrollment is now Ihe 
highest it has ever been. IPFWs His- 
panic population gained the largest 
increase of all student groups. With an 
enrollment increase of 22 percent, or 
27 students to lolal 150 sludents. The 
African-American students gained the 
second largest increase, up 8.5 per- 
cent, or 34 students, to total 434 stu- 
dents. 

According to Dahl there are a number 
ol reasons attributed to the increase in 
enrollment. Dahl cites a strong push 
by the state towards post secondary 
education as being a primary reason 
for the increase in enrollment. He said 
the state has become more active in 



educating children about the advan- 
tages ol higher education. IPFW has 
also done a few things which Dahl felt 
have attracted new students. The Uni- 
versity has opened new buildings and 
has created new staff positions. 
According to Dahl, these additions 
have created new opportunities for stu- 
dents. Within Ihe last live years IPFW 
has gained added recognition. The 
education, engineering, and the public 
affairs departments have gained sepa- 
rate accreditation. These additions, 
according to Dahl. have made IPFW a 
university with more to offer its stu- 
dents. 

According to Dahl, IPFW is now the 

area's 'college ol choice.* "The majority 

See Enrollment page 4 



Student rights threatened 
Faculty, student senates 
reject conduct code 



By Tammy Ra3nlck 
News Editor 

Faculty senate's and sludent sen- 
ate's endorsement of the IPFW Code 
of Rights, Responsibilities and Con- 
duct was formally withdrawn last 
week. The withdrawal was in reac- 
tion to the removal ol "sexual orienta- 
tion' as a protected status within Ihe 
non-harassment and non-discrimina- 
tion clauses of the code. 

The term "sexual orientation" relers 
lo a person's sexual preference and 
inclusion as a protected status would 
mean that non-heterosexual students 
would be ensured Ireedom from 
harassment and discrimination based 
on their sexual preference. 

According to Frank Borelli, vice 
chancellor ol student affairs, the 
clause should be included because 
without it, it would not be unlawful to 
discriminate on the grounds ol a per- 
son's sexual orientation. "It's a poten- 
tial loss ol rights," he said. 

Until Ihis yeai, two separate codes 
existed al IPFW, one lor Indiana stu- 
dents and another for Purdue stu- 
dents. The Indiana University code 
last year included a section that 
clearly delined student rights and 
responsibilities, with a separate sec- 
tion defining sludent conduct. Pur- 
due's code did not include a section 
specifically outlining student rights 
and responsibilities; il merely includ- 
ed student conduct rules. 

Borelli said, "It was troublesome to 
have Ihe student's rights determined 
by their major." So he Initiated a pro- 
ject that would create a common 
code lor all the students. 

Last April. Ihe project was complet- 
ed and the new code was presented 
lo Ihe studenl government and the 
faculty senale. The normal proce- 



dure thai Is followed to enact a new 
code is as follows: The faculty sen- 
ate and studenl government serve as 
recommending bodies. If they both 
give their approval and recommenda- 
tion, the code is sent lo I.U. President 
Thomas Ehtlich, Purdue President 
Steven Beering and Ihe Purdue 
Boatd ol Trustees, which has the 
final vote. Chancellor Joanne Lenlz 
does nol directly give an approval or 
disapproval of the code, but she Is a 
voting member ol the faculty senate. 
If the Purdue Boatd ol Trustees 
approves the code, il will then be 
enacted. 

The new code, completed this 
spring, contained a section lhal 
specifically outlined student rights 
and responsibilities. This section 
included 'sexual orientation* as well 
as race, religion, color, national ori- 
gin, and other legally protected status 
as protected from harassment and 
discrimination while working or study- 
ing on campus. 

Alter ihe code received the 
approval of the student senate and 
faculty senale, it was sent to Ehrlich 
and Beering and Ihe Purdue Board of 
Trustees. The studenl code was 
then approved. However, wilh Ihe 
exclusion ol the phrase "sexual orien- 
tation." 

According to a memo sent from 
Beering to the IPFW faculty senale, 
"Your recommendation was thor- 
oughly reviewed and accepted by 
President Ehrlich and me and the 
Trustees of Purdue University with 
the exception of Ihe phrase "sexual 
orientation." This deletion was 
made upon the advice of legal 
counsel to make Fort Wayne stu- 
dent code consistent wilh that of 
See Code page 4 



New MADD chapter 
forms in Allen County 



By Kelll E. Beery 
Copy Editor 

Apparently there are no mothers 
against drunk driving in Allen County. 
Why not? There is no MADD chapter 
in Allen County. 

That does not mean thai people 
haven't tried to start a chapter in Allen 
County. According to Sandy Weaver, a 
Fort Wayne resident who is attempting 
to start a MADD chapter, it means that 
there has not been enough Interest to 
keep one going. 

But Weaver is in the process ol slart- 
ing a MADD chapter. It is for a good 
reason, too. 

According to Weaver, the Governor's 
Task Force in Indiana slated that 
25,000 Americans lose their lives each 
year because of drunk driving. Weaver 
continued with local statistics. In Allen 
County there were 2,793 accidents, 
216 of those were alcohol related with 
105 alcohol-related injuries and eight 
alcohol-related deaths, according to 
Weaver. 

"My whole point in organizing a 
MADD chapter,* said Weaver, "is, why 
should we wart until something drastic 
happens like a death? ... We need to 
do this now." 

But Weaver wasn't the first person to 
feel this way. MADD was started in 
1981 by Candy Ughtner in California. 
Weaver stated that Ihe reason Lightner 
created MADD was that her 13-year- 
old daughter was killed by a drunk driv- 
er who had already had numerous 
alcohol- related offenses. Weaver said 
that she (Lighlner) wanled lo make 
sure that the person who killed her 
daughter received the full responsibili- 
The focus of MADD, however, is not 



only on the ollender but also on the 
victim. One of Ihe many programs 
MADD offers is help to Ihe victims. 
According to Weaver, MADD can pro- 
vide someone lo lean on for the victims 
as well as helping them get in contact 
with attorneys and even being with the 
victims in Ihe courtrooms, if they need 
that kind of support. 

Other programs that MADD offers 
include a poster and essay contest, the 
red-ribbon campaign and KISS. 

The red-ribbon campaign runs from 
Thanksgiving through New Year's Day, 
according lo Weaver. She said, "It's 
called Tie One On and you take a rib- 
bon and lie it on your car Instead of 
drinking over the holidays and driving. 
Instead of lying one on by the alcohol, 
you're lying one on with the ribbon." 

She continued, "They also have in 
the summertime a program called 
KISS (Keeping it a Safe Summer). 
Thai emphasizes safety on family 
vacations. You think that even though 
you're not on the highway driving in Ihe 
summertime, you could be out on the 
lake driving a boat, and it's the same 
thing. You could be drinking the alco- 
hol there, too, and it could cause an 
accident just as bad." 

Weaver's hope is lo eventually go 
into Ihe high schools as a MADD chap- 
ter or work beside the Students 
Against Drunk Driving chapters. She 
woutd also like to introduce Ihe pro- 
gram to the lower-grade levels. 

"SADD chapters are just in the high 
schools. Junior high needs it real bad 
too I would think because (hose kids 
also need educated about alcohol and 
driving. ... We are seeing more alcohol 
being used by grade school-aged kids 
See MADD page 4 



Inside: 




Beering s dart board 


page 2 


Victorious Volleydons.... 


page 6 j 



Opinion 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Thurtdiy. SqptcmNrr 26. l«l 



The Communicator 



Editorial Board 



Jim Walker 

Managing Editor 



Mark Donaldson 
Sports Editor 



Kelll E. Beory 
Copy Editor 



Chad Hasting 
Features Editor 



John Gruse 

Illustrator 



Dorle Reynolds Joyce Slocks 

Publisher Advertising Manager 

Tho Communieoirx is puW'jNKj on Thunday momngi nmon daiMi Bra In unsion by In* ana- Pur- 
duo Sturjont Howipnpor), Inc.. a noMw-prefil (xganaaiion InCDnxxDtod tn ffw Ualeol Indiana. 
Opinion oupmMod m Tho Communicaior !• that of 0*&gt; wrilor, or In mo casa ol untlomd otfujnali. 
ot fno odiionol board Ol mo rawapaa«f, and S noi to Po oonstruM) as raprosonfing thai ol ff» 
uriKiiiur/ adm-niauaijon, Out faculty, or inosiudenn. 

"rvi od&lt;!orlal and buiinoii olloii ol tho Comrr.uniciio* aru tocadxl in Sum 215 of itio WalD Memo- 
alUnon, Indiana UmvDfiny-Purduo Unrvamryai Fori Woyno, 2101 CoSwum Blvd E . FonWoyno. 
Ind. 4M05 

Editorial Offioa Baslnoss/Advorbslrg OtBco Pubishots Qtftco 

«1-6iJM «1-6SfrJ «t-658S 



Rights at risk 

Administration ignores 
pressing social issues 



The faculty senate and student senate have both 
rescinded their approval of the 1991-92 IPFW Code of 
Student Rights, Responsibilities and Conduct because 
the Purdue Board of Trustees removed what was con- 
sidered an important part of the code without notifying 
anyone at IPFW. Three IPFW administrators abstained 
from the faculty senate vote: Chancellor Joanne Lantz, 
Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Frank Borelli, and 
Vice Chancellor of Finance Richard Ritchie. 

Originally under the section defining students' rights to 
freedom from harassment and discrimination was the 
right to freedom from harassment and discrimination on 
the basis of sexual orientation (along with race, color, 
religion, national origin, or other protected status). 

Steven Beering, Purdue president, said the board 
made the decision to remove sexual orientation from 
that list based on legal advice and that the wording was 
removed because it did not coincide with the Purdue, 
Lafayette, code. He also said the board only included 
groups in that section which are protected by state or 
federal law. Sexual orientation is not included in state 
or federal laws. 

The implication in this exclusion is that Purdue is not 
interested in the rights of any group or individual not 
defined by law as being "protected-" Perhaps the 
board's explanation is a valid reason for removing sexu- 
al orientation from the code, but it certainly isn't a very 
palatable one. The real issue here is that non-hetero- 
sexuals deserve to be protected from closed minded- 
ness, violence, harassment and discrimination — 
whether or not the Purdue administration wants to deal 
with the issue. 

The Purdue Board of Trustees, according to Beering, 
never even discussed sexual orientation as an issue. 
They were merely interested in what legal issues the 
phrase raised for themselves, not what it meant for non- 
heterosexual students on campus. 

The issue of gay and lesbian rights is an important 
social issue facing our nation. Like most social issues 
ot our time, it is also very complicated. It will take 
much time, understanding and careful discussion to sort 
through. By ignoring what is a pressing social issue, 
the board is sending a signal that it is not interested in 
the free exchange of ideas that fosters understanding 
and peace among differing groups. 

Traditionally, the university environment has been one 
expected to foster the free exchange of ideas and the 
questioning of the society in which we live. Student 
uprisings throughout recent decades have been the 
impetus for social change and there is nothing to sug- 
gest that this cannot continue. 

The Board of Trustees, Beering and IPFW's Lantz, 
Borelli and Ritchie can continue to ignore this issue, but 
students should not. The students' rights are the ones 
at stake, and we must take the time to ensure protection 
of these rights tor all students. If we do not stand up for 
the rights of one group of students, all students' rights 
become endangered. 




■ETTERS .TOLICY 



s space en this page lor letters to the editor. 
s ol direct concern to IPFW, II 



Every week The Commuruca 
Your views are welcome 

Preference will bo given to leneii addressing 
necessary, tetters will bo etftod. 

Letters must include the author's name, signature, address and telephone number. 
Please identity yourself as art area resident or IPFW student, (acuity, or staff. Only the 
author's name win bo published with the letter. Names will be withheld only lor extraor- 
dinary reasons The deadline for letters to the editor is the Monday noon ol the week ol 
publics lion. 

The editorial board reserves tho tight to reject letters 

Letters should be sent typewritten to The Communicator office. Walb Memorial Union 
Suite 215. or mailod to The Communicator. Walb Memorial Union Suite 215. 2101 CoE- 
toum Brvd. Fort Wayne. Ind 46905 



Letters To The Editor 



Backlash 



Barger explains actions of student government 



To The Editor: 

As a senator who was-present at the 
session when three of four petitioners 
were not accepted by ihe senate I must 
try to clarify what actually happened 
and why. 

One petitioner who was not accepted 
stated thai she could not attend senate 
meetings unless wa changed our meet- 
ing lime and day to lit her availability. 
Another unsuccessful petitioner had 
lived in the IPSGA offices for months- 
greatly minimizing the amount ot work 
accomplished there by our paid staff. 

The petitioner who simply said she 
wanted lo get involved and represent 
her lellow students was unanimously 
accepted. She was later quite upset to 
be attacked by one or more of the 
unsuccesslul petitioners as being our 
token black person, etc. 

One person, Lance Cordill (Letter to 
the Editor last issue) gave an amazing 



speech at Ihe senate meeting that cast 
a lot of doubt on his ability to discrimi- 
nale what is and is not reality. Those 
who did not vote against him on Ihe 
basis of his strange speech may have 
been swayed by my statements about 
him, so I guess Lance will have to apol- 
ogize to senator Snyder and come 
looking for me to threalen to beat ME 
up. 

The senate as individuals are entitled 
to act wilh some degree ol sell- 
defense. The experiences we have 
had with our lasi student-body-selecfed 
president ol IPSGA (DAN-not Mark) 
have given us reason to be careful 
about who is to represent Ihe students 
of IPFW. We must not have another 
disaster of that magnitudel 

Senator Green asked permission for 
the picnic tables lo be moved Irom 
storage to the library patio for student 
use. (Editors check your tads before 



publication.) All "grassy area: tables 
are still there. 

As a senator and committee co-chair, 
I lake my work very seriously, (as do 
other members ol IPSGA). We are 
working on dozens of issues of student 
concern from gelling clocks on campus 
in the same time zone, to salety 
issues, parking (always), the inade- 
quate lighting ot certain walkways, sex- 
ual harassment on campus, legal aid 
for students, an advocacy syslem lor 
students, protection from discrimination 
on grounds of sexual preference, and 



If you do.nol think IPSGA is working 
for you come lo senate sessions each 
Thursday night al 8:00 p.m. In Walb 
Studenf Union. Check Room 225 tor 
meeting room number. Then if you see 
that you can help, please petition lo 
join senate. We have seldom, perhaps 
never before, not accepted petitioners 
as long as there were seats open to be 
filled. 

Nancy Barger 
IPFW Student Senator 



Writer blasts current 
student senate members 



To Ihe Editor: 

I usually stay neutral on issues that 
involve student government. II was 
only after reading Ihe letter by IPFW 
student Lance Cordill lhat I decided to 
speak outl 

I agree with Lance. I've considered 
petitioning lo be a senator. Usually, 
students who have tried in the past told 
me rt would be a waste of my lime. I 
personally know one of the graduate 
students who petitioned and was 
denied. He is intelligent, insightful and 
will listen lo all sides ol an argument. 
Why was he denied? 

I don't know Mark Snyder. All I know 
is that if he's in one of my classes, I will 
only see him the first week of school 
and on test days. This I know for a lad. 
Yel he's a barrier to me having a true 



student government. I want him outl 

I'm a 25-year-old woman struggling to 
go to school full-lime and work 35 
hours lo 40 hours a week. I sweat for 
my education, and I demand (rue rep- 
resentation Irom the senatots. Actually. 
I'm sick and tired of the whole bitter 
bunchl The inner lighting must stop. 
New. strong people must enter into the 
pidure. Lance Cordill fits these require- 
ments for me. 

Here's my proposal: II a student 
acquires 50 signatures, is taking six or 
more hours and gets average or above 
grades. I say she or he is a senalorl 
Lets lorget bullshit questions about 
Boris Yeltsin or Vietnam and locus on 
IPFW. It needs itl 

Sarah A. Faurote 
IPFW Student 



Snyder refuses to 
act as 'whore 1 



To the Editor: 

II is interesting lo note thai the edito- 
rial policy of The Communicator was 
recently revised. Previous to this past 
week, the policy slated that The Com- 
municator would not publish any items 
which might have slanderous or "sedi- 
tious" (their wording, not mine) con- 
tent. Fortunately or unfortunately, 
depending on one's perspective, that 
original qualifier was removed this 
past week, coincidentalty It would 
seem, just in time lo offer its readers 
the newest edition of the continuing 
saga of Mark S. Snyder. 

While I might attempt to defend 
mysell against the inaccurate, spuri- 
ous, and malicious portrayal of me in 
last week's The Communicator, or 
question The Communicator's journal- 
istic ethics, I feel certain this would 
only prove more fodder lor yet another 
editorial on my being "sell- serving." 

So I will make no attempt to defend 
myself nor castigate The Communica- 
tor here. Those individuals on this 
campus who know me personally 
know of my character and motives. 



Those who do not will, by regularly 
reading, come to know Ihe character 
and motive of The Communicator and 
may Ihen judge me accordingly in thai 
light. 

Meanwhile I will simply respond to 
lasi week's many references and 
inferences to me through ihe words of 
another "radical,* Thomas Paine, who 
said: 

Let them call me rebel and welcome, 

I leel no concern from it; 

But I should suffer the misery ol devils 

Were I to make a whore of my sole. 

Bedevil me as you will. Communica- 
tor, I will never be whored by your. 

Mark S. Snyder 
IPFW Student 

Editors Note - The editorial policy 
ol The Communicator has not 
appeared In written form In the 
newspaper. It has not changed. The 
example used by the writer was tak- 
en from an editorial article written 
as a call for letters and student 
Involvement and should not be tak- 
en as an editorial policy statement 



Rush fan gripes about negative review 



To the Editor: 

At the onset, I realize this has little 
chance ot being printed, as I am not 
writing on the relevent political or social 
issues of the day. I do, however, wish 
to respond to an article recently pub- 
lished in your Features section - the 
review of Rush's new album, "Roll the 
Bones." 

I realize (hat we all have dilferent 
tastes, in music or any other facet of 
life. But I also realize that a "reviewer* 
must learn to pui those tastes aside 
when passing judgement on something 
thai dos not fit into his or her taste. 



It bothers me lhat popular music has 
fallen to such a state that a band would 
be criticized for "trying lo be great 
musicians.* I can understand how a 
person with a layman's underslanding 
of music might not understand or 
appreciate what a band such as Rush 
is trying lo do. It seems lhat Mr. Hest- 
ing's primary complaint ol Rush is thai 
they refuse lo succumb lo the formulaic 
designs which circumscribe most 
bands. 

Clearly. Mr. Hesting has IrTlle know- 
ledge of music. Unfortunately, I have 
dealt with his kind before. As a long- 



time musician and student of music. I 
can state with affirmaiion lhat Rush 
{along with few other bands) has con- 
sistently produced original and techni- 
cal compositions lo go along with 
strange and ingenious arrangements. 
Their music is also extremely difficult to 
reproduce from a playing standpoint. 
Very few bands can say that. And very 
few lyricists provide a match (or Mr. 
Pearl's wonderful, esoteric and, yes, 
virtuous lyrics. However, I am not going 
to criticize other bands simply because 
I find most rock and pop music incredi- 
bly boring. 



In ihe luture. I suggest thai Mr. Hest- 
ing should try to evaluate music as if 
applies lo a particular genre, rather 
than attacking it for not catering to his 
personal taste. The Communicator 
staff should also evaluate an article 
rather than lakmg it at face value. 

Mr. Peart drums like a wino? Come 
on, Chad, my boy. Neil can do more 
with his left hand than you could with 
six arms, three feet, and a tail. Ha 
writes better also. 



Opinion 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



More Letters . . . 

Senate member calls Communicator 'yellow 1 



ToThsEdllor: 

I am writing in response to the editori- 
al of the 19th. advocating to shake-up 
in the student government. As an I.U. 
alumna, a student, and a senator, I 
take exception to the allegations direct- 
ed at the student senate. 

The issue ot picnic tables being 
moved lo and used at the library is a 
case in point These tables were 
moved by senators, al students' 
requests, to provide them with an area 
where they could smoke and have 
access to library facilities. The tables 
were hand-carried from Ihe "grassy 
locallon* behind Safety and Security 
and not from Aquarius Park. It Ihe edi- 



torial stall had bothered 10 ask any of 
the students pres-ent at Ihe time or sim- 
ply counted the tables in Ihe park, they 
would have known that. So much tor 
journalistic accuracy. 

Regarding "selective membership." all 
of the sludenis who ran lor senale 
office in Ihe elections were elected If 
their number was small, it was no more 
so than those who turned out to vote. 
Three petitioners were also voled in 
during the 1991 summer session. As to 
petitioners declined in senate sessions 
Ihis fall, one of three stated non-avail- 
ability tor meetings at Ihe outset. In try- 
ing lo enlist new petitioners lor remain- 
ing senale seals. I've been told by not 
a few students that they didn't need 



"the hassle of bad press" traditionally 
experienced by Ihe student senate in 
addition lo their academic course load. 
Bad press? Hmmm. What could Ihey 
mean? 

As lor past and present budgets, the 
editorial stall represents the student 
senate as the final authority on funding 
of campus organizations. The senate 
recommends a budget lor student 
monies. Vice Chancellor Borefli con- 
trols final budget approval and 'totals 
adjustments,' a lact well known lo The 
Communicalor. The paper's increased 
funding request for 1991-92 of $33,000 
to cover extra production expenses 
and additional liability insurance 
demanded by Purdue University was 



given final approval by Ihe vice chan- 
cellor for $28,000. Whose "self-inter- 
est* is al issue here? 

All meetings ot the student senate are 
open lo the student body as a whole 
and I urge il lo attend. Students will 
see first-hand we are working for Ihe 
improvement ot their educational envi- 
ronment and personal safely on cam- 
pus. In lieu ol objective, tactual cover- 
age ol the student government, per- 
sonal attendance may bo Ihe only thing 
to enable students to separate lact 
from lallacy on Ihe pages of this very 
expensive, weekly exercise in yellow 
journalism. 

S. L Green 
IPFWSIudent 



'Angle' boasts new and improved format, more fun 



By Jim Walker, Managing Editor 
This is the lirsl week for Ihe new and 
improved Oblruse Angle. The column 
now (natures several hip little bits of 
fun Instead ol Ihe usual one big bit of 
fun. It's a special treat for those ol us 
with puny attention spans. 

In the Angle, all important names and 
other nouns lo remember will be print- 
ed in boldface. It's all very '90s, Isn't it. 
Anyway, here is the first snip. 

SENATE WATCH - At lasi Thursday 
night's studeni senale meeting, the 
newly selected vice president of legis- 
lature, John Welsenburger, (see relat- 
ed story, page one) made Ihe following 
slatement: "I was very perturbed by 
what I read in The Communicator 
today. Fifty percent ol it was slander- 
ous." And so on. 

Welsenburger, who looks, ads and 
smells like a politician, lacks a true 
understanding ol the word "slander." 
So lor John and all of the other sticky 
tittle political hopefuls out there, here's 
a briel point of clarification on slander. 

According to 'Media Law," by Ralph 
L. Holslnger, slander is "Spoken 
words that falsely delame a person so 
that his or her reputation is harmed or 
others are deterred from dealing with 
him or her.' 

Ooopsl John was a little olf target 
with this attack, wasn'i he, kids? News- 
papers, like The Communicator, are 
printed on paper, not spoken from stu- 
dent to student or something. 

II John would have called the words 
that outraged him "libelous," he may 
have been closer to making an intelli- 
gent stalemenl. According to Ihe Asso- 
ciated Press Slylebook and Libel Man- 
ual. "Libel is injury to reputation. 
Words, pictures or cartoons that 
expose a person to public hatred, 
shame, disgrace or ridicule, or Induce 
ill opinion of a person are libelous." 

So from now on kids, if we are going 
to accuse the nasty old Communicalor 
of some wrongdoing, let's use the 
proper term. 

And here's an additional tip lor our 
young political hopefuls out there. 
Know what you are talking about 
before opening your iraps. It's hard for 
politicians who say really dorky things 
lo be laken seriously. Just ask Dan 
Ouayle. 

DID YOU EVER NOTICE? - This spot 
will probably appear regularly in The 
Angle. When you read "Did you ever 
notice,* imagine Andy Rooney whin- 



do mwliciing project on your campus. Bcsl 
opporturiilj oflkiMod! CnllDOwI 

1-800-669-7678 



GMP Cleaning. Inc. 

"™ ' B0 *■*"' Stan: S5.SMI 
Call 747-02B0 



""Hostesses 

Bartenders 

Barbacks 

Cocktailers 

Cooks 

Dancers 

wanted at 



(p- 



Work for the 

Entertainment Mecca- 

of the Midwest 

Must be 18 
Call 486-1979 A 




say, "Hello." Why is Ihis? 

The same thing happens whh motor- 
cycle riders. It doesn't matter what two 
bikes Ihe riders are on, they will still 
wave lo each olher. When I used to 
buzz around town on my litile Yamaha, 
leathery Harley Davidson dudes would 
nod or wave when I passed. Even 
though I was wearing short pants and a 
baseball cap, we were sfill buds. 

But ri a coupte ol jogging enthusiasts 
drive by each other on Coliseum 
Boulevard in their Mazdas, they 
wouldn't wave. And i( the Harley guy 
and I passed each other in our pickup 
trucks during a rain storm, we wouldn't 
nod al each olher. 

Did you ever notice lhal? 

CONDOMS ON CAMPUS - Ol some 
students, including student senators, 
want condom machine's on the IPFW 
campus. Boy, ihis is something we 
really need. 

Because ihis is a dormless, com- 
muter campus, Ihere aren't too many 
places where sexual activity is allowed. 
Actually there are zero hot spots for 
doing it here. So what will the condom 
machines do for sludenis? 

It's nol like a couple of students are 
going to be silting very close to each 
other in sociology class when one of 
them suddenly breathes, "I want you 
here, now." And the olher says, "Okay, 
but I don't have birth control in my 
backpack." If IPFW had condom 



tachrnes, one of Ihe students 
say, "I'll just slip out to one of Ihe con- 
veniently located condom machines. 
Stay right there.' 

Then when the student relurned, rub- 
ber in hand, the couple could retire to 
the secluded shadows behind the over- 
head projector and get busy. Not a 
likely story. 

So if we do get condom machines on 
campus, we need sex lounges where 
ihe condoms could be puf to good use. 
I'd suggest kicking Ihe studeni govern- 
ment out of its suite in Walb and turn- 
ing it into IPFW'e Garden of Earthly 
Delights and Condom Distribution 
Center. 

Thai would work with me. 

SECRET ADMIRERS - The inquiring 
minds of ihe Obtruse Angle staff want 
lo know There is mysterious love in Ihe 
conditioned air of The Communicator 
office. Photo editor Mark Daley has a 
secret admirer. 

Whoever he or she may be has senl 
Mark flowers, a stuffed puppy dog doll, 
chocotafes. a book ol love poems, a 
picnic basket filled with cheese, bread, 
grapes and wine, one lit red candle, 
balloons and, last but certainly not 
least, an actual video tape of the Elvis 



HOME EQUITY 
SPECIAL 



movie, "Loving You.' 

Mark has no idea who Ihis crazed, 
obsessed individual may be. Our hand- 
writing experts have concluded lhat the 
notes with the gifts were written by a 
female. 

Crime Stoppers will pay up to $1,000 
to any studeni who can provide infor- 
mation leading to Ihe arrest and con- 
viclion ol Mark's secret admirer. 

THATS IT - As a fining ending lo the 
new, very up-fo-dale Obtruse Angle, 
we present a quote from a very 90s 
man. 

QUOTE OF THE WEEK - "Nobody 
loves no one." - Singer Chris Isaak 
from ihe song "Wicked Game," 

RESEARCH IIFORMATION 

* Urgejl USrary ot irftonruDon m U 'i 
19.771 rones -ALL SUBJECTS 
OOti Catalog tatay wi" Visa / MC of COO 



-800-3510222 



Ifixedrat eI 



3 Years 
5 Years 
7 Years 



APR 

9.50% 

10.25% 

11.00% 



Loan Rates Subject 
to Change Daily 

home loan rl? 



1H£ PRo&amp;lFM i$. 




THESoLoTiONiS US} 

WORLD FOOD DAY 



OCTOBER 16th 




With speclol emphasis on the Western Hemisphere, the 
1991 World Food Day Teleconference, paneled by 
Internationally known experts, will explore how national 
and International policies and agreements Impact 
farmers, food production and hunger. 

Channel 6 will air this live broadcast from George 
Washington University, October 16. from 1 1 am - 2 pm. In 
the Walb Memorial Ballroom, 

A telephone will be available at the telecast site for 
those wishing to phone In questions to the panelists. 

Everyone is welcome to attend. 




f™ — 



DNESDAY 




The DOWNTOWN 
Bar &amp; Grill is your 
exclusive party place 
for Progressive and 
House music every 
Wednesday night 
from eight until close. 
An exciting alterna- 
tive experience of 
sight and sound. j 

Be a part of the I 
action as On The \ 
Edge is recorded 
LIVE and played 
back Sunday nights 
on B- 106. 



long Neck Beers 
$1.0r||||||P 

JSftafsof Kafiilkase- '■'. 
MWafemieion • $1,00 



Only at 

DOWNTOWN^ 

Bar &amp; Grill 

HOW. Columbia St. 

Fort Wayne, IN 

426-8220 

fBme 



THELMA &amp; LOUISE ARE BACK! 

Now's your chance 

to take 

Get-Mi fe 101 




A RIDLEY SCOTT FILM 



THEIMA LOUISE 

MBTRMOlDWYNJllAYERimn. 

.PERCY MAIN™™. RIDLEY SCOTT™, SLSLN SMIViDON CEEVA DA\TS -THF.I.M\ &amp; LOUISE' 
HARVEY KEITEL "S ELIZABETH McBRIDE "t, HANS ZIMMER a*«°. DEAN O'BRIEN .„CALLIE MM 

&lt;SH THOM NOBLE "SSS N0RRIS SPENCER „SHK ADRIAN BIDDLW "TS CALLIE KH0URI 
(gg^^ ES ~"S RIDLEY SOOTr^MiMI POLK -°« HIDLEY SCOTT . 



COMING TO A THEATER NEAR CAMPUS ON SEPTEMBER 27 



News 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Th ursday . S cptt mbcr 26, 1991 



IPFW feels effect of budget cuts 



By Diana Johnson 
Stall Writer 

In April, ihe Indiana Siaie Legisla- 
tion, with Iho help of governor Evan 
Bayh, decided lo cut Indiana's educa- 
ilon lundlng. Duo lo Ihese cuts, many 
univeisltles, state wide, Including 
IPFW, have had lo cul coiners and 
raise tuition by 6 to 1 percent. 

According to Ihe president of Ball 
State University, Michael McDaniel, 
universities Including Ball State, are 
trying lo adapt to the culs made lo 
them In slate aid. 

"We are trying lo do the best we can 
wilh what we have. We donl wan! to 
hurt programs or faculty and slaff 
salaries,* McDaniel said. 

Cuts at Purdue Universlly have 
prompted Ihe administration to double 
their eftorls in student recrullmont, 
said Sleven Beering, Purdue presi- 
dent. Bui he also warned thai class 
sizes as well as competition for 



grants, contracts, and corporate and 
private support towards the University 
need lo increase as well. 

IPFW is also lacing lough limes. In 
June of this year, Ihe Purdue Board ol 
Trustees approved an eight percent 
tuition increase, making tuition $59.55 
per credit hour, Although slate appro- 
priations to the University increased lo 
$26.5 million ($2.6 million over last 
year). IPFW's total operating budget is 
$52.6 million according to Chancellor 
Joanne Lantz. 

$1.5 million ol the $2.6 million 
increase will help with the payment ol 
debts on existing buildings, leaving an 
actual increase of $1.1 million appro- 
priated by the slate to support 
increased enrollments, she said. 

According lo Lantz, no new monies 
were appropriated lor inflation, utili- 
ties, and maintenance of the new 
buildings, mandatory social security 
for associated (acuity, higher health 



insurance costs, and raises. In addi- 
tion, next year the State is eipecting 
lo cut Ihe budget by another 
$300,000. 

Nol only are university administra- 
tors suffering the effects, but so are 
laculty and stall. According to Lantz, 
no raises will be given to anyone who 
makes $40,000 or more annually. 
She believes a lack of raises will 
erode their income due to inflation. 

As a student, Senior Shannon Jones 
fears these cuts may mean fewer 
classes offered to students and fewer 
research grants available to profes- 
sors and students. 

Jones thinks the best solution is to 
change how state legislators make 
education funding decisions. "Legisla- 
tors need to consult wilh educators, 
not make 'expert' decisions based on 
what they think they know. They are 
not the experts," she said. 



Enrollment 



Code 



continued from page 1 
Purdue University." 

According to Purdue's Conduct Code 
lor 1990-91 in Part A. Section four, 
"The administrative dean for regional 
campuses Is hereby authorized and 
directed lo make and promulgate revi- 
sions of these regulations, as applied 
to Ihe regional campuses, which are 
necessary because ol the different stu- 
dent of laculty organizations or govern- 
ments existing at the regional campus- 
es ... . 

After learning ol the changes made in 
Ihe student code that had been recom- 
mended by IPFW's governing bodies, 
both Ihe faculty senate and student 
government withdrew their endorse- 
ment ol the entire code. The decision 
lo withdraw endorsement was voted on 
in the faculty senate and unanimously 
approved with three abstentions: 
Lanlz, Borelii and Ritchie. Lantz stated 
th.it the fact that she did not vole on 
Ihe issue is significant and 'Student 
and faculty senates have every right to 



do as Ihey wish and show (heir feel- 
ings." 

She went on to explain that she feels 
this is an issue lor those bodies lo 
resolve. 

A memorandum presented at the 
Sept. 16 faculty senate meeting Irom 
Michael Downs, speaker lor Indiana 
Faculty and chair of the political sci- 
ence department, expressed the views 
held by Ihe senate, "It is our strongly 
held view that this (elimination ol sexu- 
al orientation as a protected status) is a 
threat to the rights of all members ol 
the IPFW communily. ... The IPFW 
senate ... withdraw(s) its endorsement 
of Ihe Code and rejecl(s) the sub- 
stance of the amendment and the man- 
ner in which it was made." 

In a resolution enacted by a unani- 
mous vole in Ihe sludenl government, 
on Sepl. 4, "The Indiana Purdue Slu- 
denl Government Association strongly 
objects to the deletion of sexual orien- 
tation in Part 1, Section A under Non- 
discrimination and Non-harassment 



and ... hereby withdraw(s) its endorse- 
ment." 

According to Downs, "The withdrawal 
of endorsement means the code will be 
more difficult to implement and will not 
be successful in achieving its purpose. 
In turn, this will cause the Purdue 
administration to think again about 
whether or nol the phrase should be 
included,' he said. 

Krislina Frazier-Henry, IPFW student 
body president, said lhal this is an 
important issue because, "It's a class 
ol students that deserves lo be protect- 
ed." 

Steve Hollander, assistant professor 
of English, was also concerned with 
the Implications of excluding sexual ori- 
entation as a protected status. He stat- 
ed in the faculty senate meeting that 
the absence of "sexual orientation" as 
a protected status means that the Uni- 
versity can and perhaps will discrimi- 
nate on the grounds ol sexual prefer- 
ence. 



continued from page 1 
of the area's high school graduates 
attend IPFW." he said. Dahl said there 
are numerous reasons lor this. Many 
students live here in Allen County. 
Thus going to IPFW makes it easier lor 
students to couple school, with work or 
a social life. With homes located so 
close to school students have more of 
a choice lo attend either full time or 
pan time. Dahl also said moving for 
some college students may be too big 
of a step. He said that some students 
may be frightened by (he size ol other 
campuses; so IPFW becomes the col- 
lege of their choice. 

According to Dahl, new student 
recruitment has become easier for 
IPFW in the last live years. IPFW con- 
tinues to attend the college information 
fairs and ihe college information days 
thai high schools offer. "With all of the 
new opportunities that this university 
has created." Dahl said, 'sludents are 
seeing IPFW as a better value than it 
used to be." He also pointed out thai 
tuition al IPFW is 20 percent less than 
al Indiana or Purdue main campuses 
and students do not have to pay dorm 
costs. Dahl said these facts about 
IPFW are helping the school's recruit- 
ment practices and Ihe results show in 
ihe enrollment numbers. 

According to Dahl. Ihe recruitment ol 
high school graduaies remains high on 
the University's list (or new student 
prospects. The school has also 
increased its efforts to attract the adult 
student. Dahl said adult students 
make up the "new majority.* According 
to Dahl Ihe new majority consists ol 
two groups ol people: Career adults 
who have decided to attend school to 
further their career, and adults who 
went to college, but lor some reason 
they jusl could not continue lo attend. 

To attract these adutl students, Dahl 
said. IPFW has been sending out 
brochures targeted to the adult sludent. 
These brochures, Dahl said, help to 
quell Ihe lears ol adults who want to 
attend college, but are afraid of being 
different. Dahl said IPFW is sending 
out a message to Ihe adults in this 
area, "We have brochures that are tar- 
geted to Ihe adult students. We talked 



MADD 



to personnel directors al local compa- 
nies. These are ways we are trying lo 
get the message out we have a lot ol 
adult students, you wont be different, 
and we are prepared lo welcome you 
and help you be successful .* he said 

According to Dahl. IPFW has , in the 
last few years, increased its efforts to 
attract the minority sludenl as well. 
This mainly includes a heavy recruit- 
ment practice to locate eligible minority 
students and attract them lo IPFW he 
said. "We started a mentoring program 
last year that focuses on minonty siu- 
dents, and we have expanded our 
efforts in identifying minority students 
who need academic assistance ' he 
said. 

Betty Poignard. head of Multicultural 
Services , said, 'Both programs are 
designed as a peer to peer counseling 
group." These mentoring programs 
include Mastering Ihe Possibilities and 
Making it Happen, mastering the Pos- 
sibilities is a program targeted to help 
Ihe Alrican- American student succeed 
in college, while Making it Happen is a 
program that assists Ihe Hispanic stu- 
dents in succeeding with their college 
education. According to Poignard. 
IPFW trains its own studenls lo help 
other students who are involved In 
Ihese programs. 

Poignard said these are the two key 
programs lhat are helping attract 
minority students to attend IPFW. 
Poignard also said IPFW has received 
recognition regarding these programs 
form "Frost Illustrated," a local newspa- 
per targeting the Alrican-Amertcan 
Community. 

The Multicultural Services Oflice has 
also set up a program called Students 
in Danger, SID is a program lhal olfers 
students counseling, said Poignard. 
The program's counselors are trained 
to help students identity what problems 
they are having and then help a stu- 
dent find a tutor, or maybe resolve a 
personal crisis, she said. 

Poignard also said travel Is an impor- 
tant part ol a student's education, so 
her department arranges educational 
Irips lor the students. She said the 
Multicultural Services oflice arranges to 
attend the annual Hispanic Leadership 



Conference in Chicago. IL This con- 
ference allows the Hispanic students to 
Interact with leading members of the 
community and includes other activi- 
ties. The annual Black Family Confer- 
ence in Louisville, KY, is another con- 
ference Multicultural Services arranges 
lo attend. This conlerence organizes 
students into workshops. Inside these 
workshops the students learn the value 
ol leadership. 

With the increase in minority students 
and the advent ol new programs, the 
Multicultural Services Office has 
become quite swamped, slated 
Poignard. Poignard said this problem 
had become enhanced because the 
office is understaffed. Compensating 
for Ihis, Poignard said, the ollice has 
had to work longer hours and operate 
more ellicienlly. Poignard said, "I have 
the utmost confidence In my staff, and 
we really work as a team.* Poignard 
said IPFW needs to establish a set 
plan that would attract communily 
minority leaders to become faculty at 
IPFW. "IPFW lacks faculty role models 
for minority students." she said. 
Poignard said lhal rl IPFW set a plan, 
the college could atlracl qualified 
minority leaders to become faculty at 
IPFW, this would establish the role 
models she thinks the University needs 
to help it's minority population. 

While Ihe enrollment at IPFW contin- 
ues to rise, the school will be laced 
with problems, according to Dahl. 
Funding for Ihe Increased enrollment 
will continue lo be a problem because 
state funds are allocated on a catch up 
basis. This means the state allocates 
funds according to the previous years 
enrollment. Tuition increases, Dahl 
said, were necessary jusl to put teach- 
ers in the classrooms. In spite of Ihe 
increases in enrollment, Dahl said "We 
have tried to not lei class sizes get 
unreasonable." This policy, Dahl said, 
is gelling harder every year. Dahl said 
IPFW is now running out of available 
classroom space. The new engineer- 
ing building will give a temporary solu- 
tion lo the space problem Dahl said. 
But finding space (or classes will con- 
tinue lo be a problem if enrollment con- 
tinues to rise. Oahl said. 



continued from page 1 
now, too. And a lot ol times if you can 
calch them at a younger age. it's a lot 
belter than waiting until Ihey hit high 
school. Sometimes that's a little 
beyond the time for help and some- 
limes it's not. Il jusl depends on Ihe 
children themselves." 

The national organization, located in 
Dallas, TX. does not lot every group 
join ils membership, however. It 
requires several sleps lo be passed 
belore a local chapter will be accepted 
into the national organization. Weaver 
said Ihe purpose ol Ihe steps is to "not 
only educate ourselves thai are form- 
ing Ihe chapter, but there are several 
questions we have lo answer in detail 
and send them back lo Texas for Ihe 
national chapter lo look at and say. 
'OK. you seem to know what you're 
talking about in Alien County.'" 

Before Allen County can have a 
MADD chapter, Ihe national organiza- 
tion requires al least 20 dues-paying 
members. The dues range from free 
for victims lo $40 for a family member- 
ship. Weaver also stressed thai 
although the title ol ihe organization is 
Mothers Againsl Drunk Driving, the 
organization also welcomes lathers, 
grandfathers, students or other con- 
cerned citizens. 

When this MADD chapter is formed, 
Weaver hopes to help change Indiana 
laws Ihrough petitions. "Right now it is 
legal in Indiana to drive with an open 
container of alcohol in your car. ... In 
surrounding slates Ihis is illegal. What 
we're trying to do since it wasn't 
passed down in the legislature this 



year, we're trying to make it so they 
can see ... lhat this needs lo be done. 
People are against having an open 
container." 

Another law Weaver is trying lo 
change involves the mulliple-death law. 
According to Weaver, il a drunk driver 
hits a car with three people in il, and all 
three are killed, the driver is only pun- 
ished for one death. 

"What happens lo the other two peo- 
ple? They kind ol get Hipped under Ihe 
rug. And whal needs to be changed is 
he needs to be charged with all three 
deaths, not jusl Ihe one.* 

The whole theory behind Weaver's 
Involvement wilh MADD centers 



involved but a crime, according to 
Weaver. 

'We need lo teach our young people 
now so when Ihey gel older they'll be 
better drivers nol only when they are 
out on Ihe roads without the,alcoho! in 
them, but we need to get thorn the edu- 
cation they need to know that when 
you're under the influence of alcohol 
and you get out on that road, in a split 
second, you can either kill yourself or 
kill someone else." 

People interested in the 
MADD chapter forming in Allen County 
can call 485-2951. 



^Jl^^ Ente 



1992 BSN 
STUDENTS 




Enter the Air Force immediately after grad- 
uation - without waiting for the results of your 
State Boards. You can earn great benefits as an Air 
Force nurse officer. And if selected during your senior 
year, you may qualify for a five-month internship at a 
major Air Force medical facility. To apply, you'll need 
an overall 2.50 GPA. Serve your country while you 
serve your career. 

USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 

COLLECT 

(317)848-5830 



MAKE 

Grade; 



HAIRCUT 
ONLY 



$799 



K-MART PLAZA EAST 

HON. Coliseum Blvd. 
4M41EI 

K-MABI PLAZA SOUTH 
7503 K-ManPkua South 
(Between fit. 57 4 Tillman) 
Ul+itl 

K-MAUT PLAZA 

32JE. Coliseum Bl-d. 

( teross Irom Glenbrooh Mall ) 

MJ-Mtl 



It's easy to mabe ihe grade ai Fiesia — the aifordable salon! Whether It's 
a new loob or your favorite loob, you can always depend on Fiesta (or 
qualiiy. service and style at affordable prices So. gel bacb to school In 
style and tabe advantage ol the smart savings with Fiesia! 
Protection at ■• iTi-i,.-. ■. by our friendly tuff lnctude&gt; 

Haircut iiciih shampoo) $ 7.1 

Total Loob (Includes shampoo, cut. blond ry. 









• M.tt 



Permanent! 

Color and High I l(b tin J '!».»&amp; up 

At your convenience, put Fiesta on your schedule this Fall! 

There's no appointment needed — fust walb in! Open 7 dayi a week. 



FREE 

TANNING 1 

&lt;M SESSIONS 1 

1 with any purchase over Sts.oo I 



I -PREGNANCi TERMINATION 10 1? WEEKS I 
1 -OUR PHYSICIANS AflE 

I UCENSED GYNECOLOGISTS • 

•WEOFFEANIfROuSOXlDE 

GAS ANALGESIA 



AFFiLiATeo 
WOMEN'S SERVICES. INC. 



FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND 
EXCELLENT BUSINESS 
EXPERIENCE!! 

Openings available for 
individual or student 
organization to promote 
the country's most suc- 
cessful 

SPRING BREAK TOURS 

Call 

Intercampus Programs 

1-800-327-6013 



^SE0STUDENT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE G 

'We have a job that may interest you! 

Software Engineer * Pascal C preferred; some knowledge of hardware 

design, methodology, and Macintosh PC helpful - Rate: Open - 10-20 
hrs-Zwk. 9-3-1-3. 



Computer Operator - Experienced with creating data information from 
a main frame system • Rate: negotiable - Flexible hours/late evenings &amp; 
weekends, 9-3-0-5. 



Paste-Up Person- Assembling components to produce camera-ready ads 
and to complete newspaper pages - S6.02 - 18-20 hrs^wk. evenings. 9-3-0-2. 

Bookkeeper - Posting of checks into computer; filing - S5.00 - Flexible 10 
hrs/wk. 9-3-0-3. 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY 

n~~!WH.«3 PURDUE UNIVERSITY 
IA) fM F ORT WAYNE 

Student Employment Service 
I Walb113 481-6596 




STOP IN TODAY! 




Features 

Thurwljy, September 26. 1991 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



Social, business fraternity leaders share similar hopes frustrations 



By Chad Hasting 
Feature 9 Editor 

A list of IPFWs fraternities and soror- 
ities looks like alphabet soup. Yet they 
all are distinct, serving drfferent student 
interests and needs. 

Goon Hoffman and Troy Parks are 
fraternity presidents, of Phi Kappa 
Thela and Dotta Sigma Pi, respective- 
ly. Phi Kappa Thela is a social fraterni- 
ty, complete with the parties, flag foot- 
ball and pledge rushing, all lhat frater- 
nity life entails. Delta Sigma Pi Is a 
business fraternity, offering guest lec- 
tures, leadership opportunities and net- 
working to ils members. Despite the 
obvious differences between the frater- 
nities, bolh presidents find themselves 
boasling the same boasts and com- 
plaining the same complaints. 

Hollman {yes, Goon is even the 
name on his checks) Is a 24-year-old 
sophomore and lives in Fori Wayne. 
He was elected president of Phi Kappa 
Thela in January of this year. Hoffman 
had spent a year in the position of fra- 
ternity treasurer before taking the pres- 
idency by a vote ol the house's active 
members. 

Upon his election, Holfman was 
charged with overseeing all Phi Kappa 
Thela's functions. He says the fraterni- 



ty's committee structure is practical, 
and makes his role as executor easy. 

"We have marry committees to lake 
care of all the regular functions of our 
organization, but we often dissolve 
committees when we lind them unnec- 
essary. This allows many members to 
see what it takes to lead a group" 
Holfman finds real pride in seeing a job 
well done. 'If there's one thing I can 
say I've done well, it's thai Eric Ste- 
man's done so well as treasurer. He 
does so well. ... I've found if a member 
does a good job, it looks good for the 
whole house.' 

Still, it's Hoffman's Job to keep the pot 
stirred. He has a lot to think about: 
The social fraternity has to be continu- 
ously active almost by definition. Phi 
Kappa Theta is active in intramural 
sports, fielding football, softball and 
basketball teams. The fraternity also 
won fast year's Greek Week events. 
There is the never-ending process ol 
rushing and educating new members. 
Hoflman praises, too, the communal 
suite tor fraternities and sororities In 
Walb Memorial Union. 

"We definitely all mix In there,' he 
said. "Tension never happens." 

Parties happen at Phi Kappa Theta, 
though Hoffman speaks animatedly 



about the Sex Party being held lhis 
weekend: "This year we're having a 
best-body contest, and co-ed Twister 
game at the Sex Party." 

The parties are points of pride for Phi 
Kappa Thela. as their social budget is 
entirely self-supported from funds 
raised at the parlies. 

Troy Parks of Delta Sigma Pi has a 



different story to lell, Delta Sigma Pi is 
an older organization, marking its 15th 
year on campus in 1992. ft is also a 
small group, with six active members 
on campus this academic year. 

The other five members voted Parks 
president, and he has been working to 
raise Delta Sigma Pi's visibility on the 
IPFW campus ever since. 




Troy Parks, President of Delta Slgmae PI 



"We're talking now to three new peo- 
ple who might be interested. We're 
hopeful.* Parks said, This year, too, 

we wanted to get to the supervision 
majors dn campus and let them know 
Ihe fraternity is lor them, too." 

Delta Sigma Pi approaches prospec- 
tive members in a way similar to social 
fraternities. Each member makes an 
effort to speak to Ihe candidate, trying 
to paint a picture ol what Ihe fraternity 
is like, while giving ihe prospects room 
to decide if the group suits Ihem. It so, 
then members are chosen by a con- 
sensus vote. 

"Delta Sigma Pi is different from oth- 
ers," Parks said. "We're not here just 
lo have (un. We want a little more than 
parties." Delta Sigma Pi sponsors 
campus lectures by business and man- 
agement prolessionals lhat are free 
and open lo the public. Community 
service efforts give Ihe fraternity a 
social agenda, too. Last year the 
group collected pop can tabs to ease 
Ihe financial burden of local dialysis 
patients. Parks points out that this 
year Delta Sigma Pi will be promoting 
Student Outreach Service, a group cre- 
ated to encourage students lo volun- 
teer time to service organizations. 

Hoffman's and Park's jobs are not 



Bring the noise: The rap music primer for beginners 



By Chad Hestlng 
Features Editor 

OK, palelacel Consider this a friendly 
warning. Yeah, you. You without a rap 
tape in your collection. You're about lo 
suiter a serious loss of face. Next 
month new Public Enemy and Ice Cube 
records will be released. Their audi- 
ences have reached critical mass, 
guaranteeing them bolh Top 10 stols in 
the Billboard album charts when the 
recoids hit the stores. Even Foxy won't 
be able lo resist anymore. You'll be 
hearing Chuck D. and Cube booming 
out of Boses until Thanksgiving, but 
you won't know what's going on, 
because you don'l have a funky beat in 
your whole lape box. Shame, 

Dbn'l del, though. I'm going to point 
Ihe way to go, Rap is the liveliest, 
smartest, and most varied music I've 
seen in my lifetime. I'm a true believer, 

"Well. I know a guy that's got the 
Hammer tape." you stammer. Wrong 
answer, sorry. Pop rappers like Ham- 
mer, Young M.C., and Vanilla Ice goi 
picked for stardom by MTV and Top 40 
radio because they're unaggressive 
and only mildly funky. NWA served 
notice that street-level rap was laking 
over Irom those guys when their record 
bumped cheerleader Paula Abdul from 
the Number 1 spot in July. Acts like 
NWA, Enemy, Cube, and Queen Lali- 
lah have been ottering stronger beats 
and sharper lyrics lor years, and in the 
future you'll see Ihem getting Ihe 



respect they deserve. 

Let me tell you about the music. It all 
slarts (and sometimes it ends) with a 
drum track and funk base. These are 
the essentials, and no one neglects 
Ihem, because rap is dance music at 
ils core. Some acts will remove a mea- 
sure or Iwo of drumbeats Irom an old 
record, and digitally loop them over and 
over to serve as their rhythm track. 
That is true to rap's origins; hip-hop 
deejays manipulated the same records 
in the early days with their two hands. 

After that, the music is free to be 
spiced up in any way rappers see fit. 
Rap is wildly varied music. Elements ol 
reggae, samba, heavy metal, blues, 
Motown, doo-wop, South African 
mbaquanga music, and quiet storm 
balladry have all been used, with con- 
siderable imagination involved, Sam- 
pling isn't just used for drumbeats 
either. Any piece of pop culture that 
can be heard, can be saved. Voices 
and spoken ideas (and nonsense, loo) 
can be mixed up and pieced together 
at the deejays' discretion. The possibili- 
ty for new and danceabte art is obvi- 
ous. Chew over this for awhile: J. 
Edgar Hoover, the Beastie Boys, Arse- 
nio Hall. Bob Marley, Elijah Muham- 
mad, Sly and the Family Stone. Mal- 
colm X, and the BBC all coexist on one 
Public Enemy song. 

The rapper, however, is at ihe fore- 
front. With Ihe melody ol the iraditional 
song structure removed, the voice 



becomes another rhylhm. Syllables are 
more easily manipulated in this way 
than within a melody's rigid structure. 
Pul simply, more can be said. 

And more is said. Rappers have tak- 
en pop lyrics to a level more sophisti- 
cated than ever before. It's often said 
ol rap lyrics that it's all a lot ol boasting. 
The boasting is there, no question, but 
not just from gangster-style B-boys. 
Women rappers boast, loo, as do white 
rappers, Jamaican rappers, Hispanic 
rappers. ...When I step back and check 
the big picture, it all sounds like individ- 
uals' pride to me. 

The lyrical pictures painted are vivid. 
Rap single-handedly biought political 
and social commentary back lo black 
music, where it's been missing for a 
long time. Even gangster rappers offer 
perspective on black life and atlitude by 
throwing out stories of dealing and cop 
killings. You say rap is violent, racist, 
sexist? Yeah, it is. CNN's violent, loo. 
"Mississippi Burning" was racist. "Twin 
Peaks" sexist, Art is a reflector, not an 
instigator, 

Rap is the sharpest music around, no 
question. Every music fan owes himsell 



P" 



FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS 

lo sludenrs oi student orrjenizo lions promoting 
out Spring Break Poctoges. Good pay I lun. 
CallCMI 1-800-423-526-1 



n= 



JH 



III SAC JIT 
U til 



EXPLORING THE MAJORS 



Exploring the Majors is being presented by Student Academic Counseling Services to help 
UNDECIDED Mudents make -in informed decision about their academic future Representatives 
from each department will discuss department requirements and career options. All presentations 
will be held from NOON until 1:00 PM on the dates specified. Plan to attend. YOUR FUTURE 
STARTS NOW, 

* September 30, 1991 

Education Kettlerll9 M. Souers 

*Arts &amp; Sciences, B.S. Kettler 108A R. Svoboda 

**Ans &amp; Sciences, B.A. Kettler 108B J. Hostetter 

• October 7, 1991 

Public &amp; Environmental Affairs Kettler 119 W. Ludwin 

Allied Health Programs Kettler 108A B. Stonestreet 

* includes Audiology &amp; Speech, Biology, Chcmisiry, Computer Science, Earth &amp; Space Sciences, Ceneral Science, Maih, Physics 
'"Includes CommunicaiLon, Computer Science, English &amp; Linguistics. History. Modem Foreign Language. Philosophy, Political 
Science, Psychological Sciences, Sociology &amp; Anlhropology. 



\l 



BACK TO SCHOOL 



BUY 2 FOOTLONGS, GET 1 




Dupont Crossing 

489-2996 



3*s CThWMKa 



- j ' -&lt; . ^"^T2? 



680 Coliseum Blvd. 
483-2836 



6016 Stellhorn Rd. 
485-0044 



Riviera Plaza 
486-8813 

3123 E. State Blvd. 
484-6988 



a taste, I promised to take you to the 
good stutf, so here it Is; The records 
listed below are the cream of the crop. 
They're labeled, depending on what 
you're looking for. Once you gel one 
home, though. I'll bet you'll find they're 
not so easy lo categorize. 

Enjoy. Oancing and thinking are satu- 
lary to each other. 

For wit and easy hooks iry: MC Lyle, 
"Eyes on This"; De la Soul, "De la Soul 
Is Dead"; Salt-n-Pepa, "Black's Magic"; 
Snap. "World Power"; Shinehead. "Uni- 
ty"; or L.L. Cool J, "Mamma Said Knock 



You Out." 

For big gangster beats try: NWA, 
"Straight Otla Compton"; Ice, "O.G."; 
Geto Soys, "Gelo Boys"; Kid Frost, 
"Hispanic Causing Panic." 

For sharp political bite Iry: Queen Lat- 
ilah, "All Hail the Queen'; Boogie Down 
Productions, "Edutainment"; Ice Cube, 
"AmeriKKKa's Mosl Wanted"; Poor 
Righteous Teachers, "Pure Poverty"; 
Public Enemy, eilher "It Takes a Nation 
ol Millions ..." or "Fear ol a Black Plan- 




The Finest Stereo 
Equipment &amp; Accessories 



THREE RIVERS AUDIO 



Fort Wayne, IN 



Rotel, Vandersteen, 
Onkyo, Conrad-Johnson, 
B&amp;K and more 

(219) 422-5460 




7- •• •• -* 



*(Bank Machine On Campus) 



Meet the OWL. Just the kind of friend a 
college student needs. He hangs out at The 
Fort everyday. Carries a lol of cash. He's always 
there for you, anytime of the day or night, and 
he's a great listener. 

If 24-hour access to your bank accounts 
sounds like a good deal to you, make friends 
with the OWL, on the ground floor at Walb 
Memorial Union Hall. And get your free OWL 
card at any office of Fort Wayne National 
Bank. Where helping out our friends is just 
business as usual. 

Business as Usual. 

FORTWAYNE 
NATIONAL 

thaismyBANK 



without their trials, though. The two 
men's complaints about their positions 
are very similar. The presidents' work 
cuts hard into their time schedules. 
Both have lull class loads and jobs, yet 
are also fully responsible for keeping 
their fraternities active, 

'Keeping track ol everyone can be a 
job in itself," said Parks. 

Both agree, loo, lhat managing funds 
is troublesome. The fraternity has lew 
projects lhat require a one-lime-only 
outlay of money. Ongoing activities 
can *nlckel-and-dime a fraternity to 
death,* according to Hoffman. 

Hoflman added thai Ihe spring finals- 
week session last year was a real 
struggle for him. "There it was, the last 
week ol school, and fraternity business 
had to get done. Everyone was busy 
studying, so 1 did mosl ol it. The buck 
had to slop here." 

The two keep al it, nevertheless, and 
do their jobs well. Parks' mission, he 
said. Is to make sure Delta Sigma Pi's 
future is ensured after May. when he 
and several other members graduate. 
As lor Holfman, he doosn'l complain 
much. "No matlerwhal happens, ever." 
said Phi Kappa Thela secretary, Colby 
Vanderlier, "Goon Is always easy to get 
along with." 



-3TT 



33 



m 



RAISING 



or other campus organization. 
ABSOIWELY NO IHVISTMNT StQUIRlD! 



OC 



wm 




ATAZARS 



Now 



Now lhal you've danced 

Ihe right away, you 

need lo satisfy 

Ihose midnight 

mundiies So 

check oul Ihe new 

LATE NITE menu 

alAzars. 



t4- 



II features lots ol great food at 
great prices: 

• Five Rutty Omelettes 

■ Six Moonlight 
Breakfasts 

• Four Starlight 
Sandwiches 

■ Eight Dreamy 
Desserts 

■ More than 10 other Sides and 
Beverages 



The ne&lt;t tme your not quite ready 

a ^ lo call it a night, head 

^T^y lo the nearest Azar's 

4£* C Big Boy Family 

~\a3 Restaurant lor the all- 

pr new LATE NITE menu. 

Ml lame the 

Midnight 

Munchies. 



BigBoy 




Sports 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



ThursJjy. September T6. 1991 



Mastodons split GLVC contests 



By Mark Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

The IPFW soccer team opensd Great 
Lakes Valley Conference play with a 3- 
2 ovortimo victory over Bella/mine Col- 
logo Saluiday on the Mastodons noma 
liold. Another overtime contest the fol- 
lowing day yielded a different outcome 
as the 'Dons (ell lo GLVC foe Northern 
Kentucky University 3-1 . 

On Saturday, Bellarmine opened the 
scoring at the 36-minute mark on a 
goal by Slave Profumo. Freshman Bri- 
an Hut/ evened the score one minute 
later. 

After a scoreless second half. Butz 
scored three minutes Into tha overtime 
period to pul Ihe 'Dons up 2-1. Fresh- 
man James Ewing stretched the load 
to 3-1 when he scored nine minutes 
later. Bellarmlne's Profumo goi his sec- 
ond goal of the match when he scored 
wilh eight minules remaining, but IPFW 
hold on lor Ihe win. 

Maslodon goalkeeper Hagan Lyle, a 
Ireshman, made 10 saves while Mark 
Bonlloz stopped six shots for Bel- 
larmine. Bellarmine outshot lha 'Dons 
2M7lnlhemalch. 

Agalnsl NKU on Sunday, the 
Mastodons were outshot 31-4 while 
Lyle made 13 saves. 

NKU's Todd Gruenwald opened Ihe 



scoring at Ihe 14-minule mark when he 
converted Trevor Fugazzi's assist Buiz 
scored his third goal of the season to 
He Ihe game at the 57-minute mart. 

In the overtime, Tom Derenlhal 
scored al the 94-mlnute mark, and 



Gruenwald picked up his second goal 
of the game at 97 minutes. 

IPFW finished the weekend wilh a 
record of 4-2-0 overall, 1-1-0 in GLVC 
play, and returns to action Wednesday. 
Oct. 2, when Lewis University visits (he 
IPFW campus. 



Runners place, improve times 



By Mark Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

It was a beautiful day to run Satur- 
day. So they ran. 

Both the men's and women's cross 
country teams competed in the Manch- 
ester College Invitational Saturday. 
The men's team (inished 10th out of 15 
teams while (he women's team finished 
In 14th place. 

"It was a beautiful day. Perfect run- 
ning conditions." said Coach Dave 
Neely. 'I'm really happy wilh the team. 
They ran a superb race with 11 of our 
12 runners clocking their season's best 
limes." 

Sam Nolan's leam-best lime ol 27 
minutes, 28 seconds, was good for 
30th place In the 151-runner liold 

Other finishers for (he men's team, 
their placing and time were Jason Dou- 
glas (35, 27:46), Clilf Burns (63, 
28:40), Mark Schoudel (73, 28:57). 



Craig Wallers (106, 30:15), Rob Bailer 
(122. 31:31), and Ftob Ochoa (131. 
32:31). 

'Cliff Burns showed the best improve- 
ment said Neely. 'He's getting into 
condition and dropped about a minute 
off his time." 

Nancy Bushnell once again led the 
women's team in Ihe 5,000-meter race, 
finishing 58th out of 133 runners with a 
time of 21:38. 

Other finishers lor Ihe woman's team, 
their placing and time were Sarah 
Schoenle (68, 22:02), Deanna 
Wineland (73, 22:15), Stephanie 
Charleston (82, 22:36). and Cotleen 
Garcia (104, 24:28). 

■We're starting to pack it in real lighl 
as a team," said Neely. 

"The team is in great spirits, every- 
body's excited. We're looking forward 
to Saturday's race at St. Joe." 



Lady Dons serve up GLVC victory 




IPFW's Chrystl McKlnley s 
In a recent match. 



By Mark Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

The IPFW women's tennis team spirt 
its Greal Lakes Valley Conference 
match-ups Saturday in Highland 
Heights. KY. The Lady 'Dons beat 
hos! Northern Kentucky University 5-3 
after falling to Lewis University 5-4. 

Head coach Sandy Lee was pleased 
with the team's first conference win. 

'It was a greal weekend." she said. 
"The girls realty needed a team win.' 

Against Lewis. Calhy Dunwiddle, 
and Chrysti McKinley both picked up 
singles wins. Dunwiddie won al Ihe 
number (wo position 0-6, 6-0, 6-0. 
while McKinley look the sixth position 
match 5-7. 6-3. 7-5. 

IPFW took the second doubles 
match when Angel Straw and Annie 
Gardner won 7-6. 6-1. Sofia Rosales 



and Wendy Schmeling won the num- 
ber (hree doubles 6-4, 6-2. 

In beating NKU the Lady 'Dons cap- 
tured four singles matches. Dunwiddle 
won at number two 4-6, 6-1, 6-1, while 
Straw moved up to the third position 
lo win 6-4, 6-4. Stephanie Combs 
picked up her first conference win 6-0, 
6-0 at the fifth spol. and McKinley got 
her second win of the day al number 
six 6-0, 6-1. 

The Rosales-Schmeling doubles 
team rounded out the scoring for 
IPFW 6-1, 6-2. 

Next up for the Lady 'Dons are 
GLVC foes University ol Indianapolis 
and Kentucky State. Both matches 
are Saturday on the IPFW campus. 
The Lady 'Dons face U of I at 9 a.m. 
and Kentucky Stale at 3 p.m. 



Volleydons win two in conference 



Assistant coach resigns 



8y Mark Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

Alter lour years as assislant men's 
baskolball coach, Jon Felske has 
resigned. Felske has accepted a post- 
Hon as head basketball coach and 
assistant adult educalion director at 
John Glenn High School in Bay Cily, 
Ml. 

Felske came to IPFW wilh head 
coach Andy Piazza from Delia Com- 
munity College prior to the 19B7-B8 
season. During his four-year tenure, 
tho Maslodons had a record of 72-40 
Including two nationally-tanked, 20-win 
seasons. The 'Dons linished 16-12 last 
season, upsetting the second-ranked 
and tha seventh-ranked teams in the 
country enroule. It was the seventh- 
slraight winning season for Piazza and 
Felske. 

Piazza predicted Felske would be 
successful In his new position. 

'li Is a great opportunity for Jon both 
professionally and financially," he said. 
"Their (John Glenn High School) pro- 
gram is very down, winning seven or 
eight ballgames Ihe last couple of 
years. II is similar lo Ihe situation we 
inherited here in 1987. Personally, I 
Isel there could be no better person lo 
lake over such a silualion.* 

IPFW was 17-39 in the two seasons 
before Piazza and Felske took over. 

Piazza noled that although there has 
been some interest in Ihe newly 
opened position, replacing Felske 
would be difficult. 

"There has been a lot ol interest. 
We've had dozens ol inquires since 
Jon's leaving was announced," he said. 
"There will be a lormal posting process, 



and we'll interview over the next couple 
ol weeks, hopefully having someone 
on board by Oct. 7. Thai will give Ihem 




about two weeks before the season 
starts. 

"The timing of Jon's resignation is 
unlortunato for two reasons. First, Ihe 
pool of qualified candidates is not very 
large right now because everyone Is 
under contract to their present schools. 
That, combined wilh Ihe low salary will 
make il difficult. Our situation is further 
complicated because this is Ihe contact 
and evaluation period when we are 
allowed to visit prospects ofl-campus, 
see them in Iheir high schools and visit 
their homes." 

Piazza also noled lhat Felske's 
recruiting elforts leave the 'Dons in a 
good position for Ihe coming season. 

"On the positive side," he said. "Jon 
has lell us in very good shape person- 
nel-wise. We have a veteran team 
back." 

The 'Dons return 1 1 letler/mart. lour ol 
whom were starters. There will be four 
seniors and eighl juniors on Ihis year's 
learn. 



By Lisa Howard 
Staff writer 

A victorious weekend boosted Ihe 
IPFW Lady VolleyOons lo a winning 
record. The Lady Dons defeated North- 
ern Kentucky on Friday and the Univer- 
sity of Indianapolis on Saturday, Both 
of the teams are Great Lakes Valley 
Conference opponents. The Lady Dons 
now stand al 2-0 in Ihe conference. 

An atlack from senior Janna Plummer 
and an ace Irom Temple Swoverland 
put IPFW lo a quick 3-1 lead in Ihe first 
game againsl Northern Kentucky, How- 
ever, a number of service errors by 
IPFW let the Lady Norse back in Ihe 
game. The Lady Dons battled back and 
forth before Northern Kenlucky took a 
timeout that turned out lo be successful 
lo/ IPFW, IPFW gol a sideou! lo battle 
lor the win with a score ol 15-10. 

The second game was similar to Ihe 
lirsl leaving the Lady Dons victorious 
15-10. The third and final game still 
belonged to the Lady VolleyDons. An 
enthusiastic IPFW learn conquered the 
linal game winning 15-8. 

Swoverland and Julie Huber led the 
Lady Don allack with 12 and 11 kills 
respectively. Jill Lyon ended with 33 
assists. 

On Saturday, the Lady Dons took on 
Ihe University ol Indianapolis. It took 
the Lady VolleyDons four games lo 
defeal the Greyhounds. IPFW lost the 
first game 13-15 but foughl back in it to 
win the next three. 

In the final game the Lady Dons start- 
ed out wilh some good rallies, bul gave 
up Ihe first point. Wendy Vanderwilt 
then served five-straight points to pul 



IPFW up 6-1. The Greyhounds took a 
limeoul and got the sideouf. IPFW's 
dominance al Ihe net was led by Van- 
derwilt and Bonnie Cannell who ended 
with 17 and 10 kills respectively. 
Swoverland served Ihe Una) point, end- 
ing 15-6. Denise Scheumann, Plummer 
and Swoverland each had two service 
aces. 

The IPFW Lady VolleyDons have 
now completed 12 matches and have 
accumulated several statistics. Junior 
Swoverland leads Ihe team in three 



areas wilh 122 kills, 90 digs and 19 
service aces. Plummer and Channel! 
both have nine solo blocks. Sopho- 
more Lyon has 411 assists. She is 
averaging 34 assists a match. 

The Lady Dons traveled lo Ashland, 
Ohio, Tuesday to play the Eagles lor 
the firsl time Ihis season. The Lady 
Dons look their 7-5 record with Ihem. 
IPFW takes on Kentucky Slate on Sat- 
urday, Sepl. 28. in Frankfort, Kentucky. 
The Lady Dons next home match Is 
Thursday, Oct. 3, at 7:30 p.m. 




SINCE 19** 



Open 
7 Days 
A Week 




USDA Choice Beef 

boneless rump roast $1 .97 lb. 

Offer Expires 9-30-91 




FAST FUND RAISER 

SIOOO in 1 Week-Greeks, Clubs or 

Anyone' Ho Investment 

800-748-6817 X50 




y SACS L OFFERS CAREER PLANNING SESSIONS 



Because work will occupy At Least one third of your life, 
Student Academic Counseling Services has developed small 
group career planning sessions for Undecided students. 
Students may register for the groups by calling 481-6814 and 
requesting a session by its identifying number. There is no 
charge nor credit for these groups. 
Session #5: Mondays &amp; Wednesdays, October 2 - 30. 1991 

9 -9:50 am. Neff270 
Session #6: Mondays &amp; Wednesdays. October 2 -30. 1991 

2:30 - 3:20 pm, Kettler G41 
Session #7: Tuesdays &amp; Thursdays. October 1 -29. 1991 

10 - 10:50 am. Kettler G43 
Session #8: Tuesdays &amp; Thursdays. October 1 - 29. 1991 
2:30 - 3:20 pm. Kettler G43 



STUDENT LEADERSHIP SEMINAR 

OCTOBER 3 &amp; 4, 1991 




■fffooDorsdleiy 

Walb Memorial Union Ballroom 

6:00 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 

Opening Banquet* 

featured topics 

The Elixir of Leadership" 

LeaderStyles 
■!«.!-.■;■ ■■ 1 Irtkcti musl be purehoicd in (he 
Wjlb Memorial Union Sweet Shoppc [or 
56.00 prior lo 5:00 pm. on Monday. 
September 30.1991. 




I?ir 




President of 

DESIGNS 



Kettler Hall. Room 117 
12:00 noon - 5:00 p.m. 
Brown-bag Luncheon 
featured topics 
"The Hat Trick- 
Recruitment &amp; Tetentlon 
Organizational Management 
Goal Setting 
Motivation 

iilucnttonnl sessions ns- possible. 

Each topic presentation a 



sfs^7/o7is Tffs^e^ws 





BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE 

TO ANY COMPANY, ASK FOR 
SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. 



Y7 

in you 


befor 


ore lhan 


ust your savings 
company. You put 
s lor Ihe fulure. 
ojo one. ask inc 


quest. 


ns. H( 


w stable 


is ihe company? 



vide, that 



,ccl the- 



solid arc its investments? How sound 
is its overall Financial health? 

A good place to start looking Tor answers 
is in t lie ratings of independent analysis. 
Three companies, all widely recognized 
resources for finding out how strong a 
financial services company really is. gave 
TIAA their top grade. 



TIAA received A + from A.M. Best Co., 
AAA from Standard &amp; Poors and Aaa 
from Moody's Investors Service. These 
ratings reflccl TIAA s reliable claims-paying 
abilii v. exceptional financial strength, 
superior investment performance, and low 
expenses. With its guaranteed rate of return 
and opportunity for dividends. TIAA is 
one ol less rhan ten companies, out of 



2,200 n 

highest marks. 

CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS 
EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. 

For further growth potential and diversi- 
fication, there's the CREF variable annuity 
with four different investment accounts to 
give you the flexibility you want as you 
save for the future. 

Together, TIAA and CREF form the 
nation's largest private retirement system, 
with over S95 billion in assets and more 
than 70 years of experience serving the 
education community. For over one million 
people nationwide, the only leiters lo 
remember are TIAA-CREF. 



SEND NOW FOR A FREE 

RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KTT, 

including a .S/v. i.j/ oV/vr/ on TIA A InvrtTmcnli- 
Mail lhi&gt; coupon lev. TIAA-CREF, [&gt;tn..QC. 
730ThirdA.cout.Nfw York. NY 1001?. O. nil 
I 800-8^2-2733. E*t. 8016. 




Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it. 1 " 



AM** 


CUy 


*,., 


&amp;e+ 


r«s«-. ( FJi™»&gt; 


Tab 


rt,*— t 


-W 1 


O IS, DAd 




ifja.S~*l&amp;f*nl,* 



