Hhana-purdue 



UN ,VtKSfn E S-FOI!T w^ 



Communicator. 1973-74. 



INDIANA - PURDUE COMMUNICATOR 



INDIANA-PURDUE UNIVERSITY, FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 



ifrlt ItLUM aXKih 




By Purdue faculty 



Independence vote 
narrowly defeated 



The square dance begins during last weekend's Multiple Sclerosis Marathon. A little over JIJOO 
was raised as of noon Saturday. Donations from all the collection boxes have not been counted yet. 

Former student convicted 
of stealing books here 



By TOMMY FRANKE 

The Purdue faculty voted by a 
narrow margin this week not to pass a 
resolution making a public an- 
noucement stating that they were in 
favor of Indiana-Purdue becoming an 
independent university. 

The vote was 59 against the 
resolution, 50 for, and one ballot was 
blank. There are approximately 150 
Purdue faculty members. 

On October 30, this resolution was 
passed by the Purdue faculty senate: 



A former IU-PU student has been 
placed on probation in connection 
with the recent theft of several 
textbooks on campus. 

Leon Turner, 19, 428 Buchanan 
St., pleaded guilty in court Jan. 25 of 
stealing some SG3.20 worth of books. 
Turner, also known as Dennis Leon 
Staevens, was apprehended Jan. 18 
shortly after the books were reported 
missing. 

He had sold a portion of the books 
back to the campus bookstore. 

Safety and Security was first 
notified of the stolen books at 3:30 
p.m. that day, IU-PU student Debo- 
rah A Keck, 7523 Wohama Drive, 
reported that the books of her and her 
friends had been taken from the 
music lounge in Neff Hall. 

A short time later, two books 
belonging to Miss Keck were turned in 
to Safely and Security. The psychol- 
ogy and geology books, bearing Miss 



He and John Altevogt, bookstore 
employee, apprehended Turner at the 
main entrance to Kettler Hall. Turner 
handed over the cash from the books 
and was taken to the Fort Wayne 
Police Station. Owners of the books 
agreed to press charges. 

Turner was given six months' 
probation in the January 25 sentenc- 



ing. 

He had been a student at IU-PU 
last semester, but is not registered 
here at the present time. 

Safety and Security Chief Earl 
Warnock expressed relief that a 
campus book thief finally had been 
caught. "We get an awful lot of this 
(book stealing)," he said. 



e that it favors the c 
of the Indiana-Purdue Regional 
Campus into a separate, independent 
state university.. ..Several actions on 
behalf of the Purdue faculty senate 
preceded the vote. 

The resolution was originally 
submitted by Clifford A. Nault, 
English professor, and passed 25 to 15 
with one abstaining. 

At a subsequent meeting, William 
Davis, chairman of the biology 
department, represented petitioners 
calling for the reconsideration and 
amendment of the resolution. It takes 
the signatures of at least 32 members 
[o bring up a passed resolution for 
reconsideration. 



Since the resolution was then 
defeated, the resolution had to go 
before the entire faculty for a vote, 

David Bash, mathematics profes- 
sor, evaluated the changing attitudes 
toward the resolution stating that 
many of the faculty members' 
; have changed since the 
of the search for 
super chancellor. 

"With the first vote, there was no 
alternative. Now many want to give 
the super-chancellor alternative a 
chance to work," he added. The 
announcement of the search for the 
super-chancellor came on November 
8, following the first vote and prior to 
the reconsideration. 

When Nault was asked his 
comment on the faculty vote, he said, 
"One thing (hal should he remember- 
ed is that if you eliminate the four 
votes cast by people in Lafayette and 

two votes cast by administrators 
here, it becomes very close to being 50 
-50." 

Heexplaincd that constitutionally 
several administrators are consider- 
ed faculty members. 

He added, "When we here at 
Indiana-Purdue become gerryman- 
dered the way IU-PU is, and when 
people see the mess in Indianapolis, 



then there will be much stronger 
sentiment favoring independence. 

"I strongly suspect that the 
super-chancellor was selected long 
before the search and screen commit- 
tee was ever created, and that the 
academic structure has already been 
determined. 

"We know that the two business 
managers from Bloomington and 
West Lafayette have been conversing. 
We have not even been able to find out 
what they've been talking about. 

"I think that the first meetings of 
the search and screen committee and 
the ad hoe joint steering committee 
are just exercises in futility. 

"While the majority of faculty 
members regard themselves as a 
single faculty, the two administra- 
tions do not see matters in this light." 

Nault clarified this statement by 
pointing out that both Indiana-Purdue 
chapters of the American Federation 
of Teachers (AFT) and the American 
Association of University Professors 
(AAUP) are unified chapters, each 
having both Indiana and Purdue 
affiliated members. 

He added, "What this indicates is 
that the more concerned members of 
the faculty regard this as a single 



IHETS to connect 
educational stations 



Keck' 



Kettler Hall. 

Safety and Security then alerted 
the bookstore in case the books be 
returned for money. 

At 5:15 p.m., the bookstore 
reported that books totaling $22 that 
matched * the description of those 
stolen had been just returned. Officer 
Stephen Haxbe was ordered to 
investigate. 

East 'B' lot to 
be changed 

A portion of the east "B" lot on 
campus will be changed to "A" status 
in the near future, according to Earl 
Warnock, chief of Safety and Secur- 
ity. 

The first two rows of the asphalt 
"B" lot near Kettler Hall will be 
affected. Overcrowded conditions in 
the nearby "A" lot resulted in the 
change. 



A new network in Indiana soon 
will connect education radio stations 
serving more than half the population 
of the state, On February 18, the 
Indiana Higher Education Telecom- 
munications System (IHETS) will 
place the radio network into operating 
the radio network into operation 
serving stations on the campuses of 
Ball State, Indiana State, Indiana, 
Purdue and Vincennes universities. 
Collectively, the stations serve more 
than half the population in Indiana. 

On its first day of operation, the 
network will carry news reports from 
the Westinghouse Broadcasting Corp. 
Through a special arrangement, news 
will be picked up at Fort Wayne's 
Radio WOWO and routed through 
IHETS master control to the stations 
on the network. This service will offer 
reports from throughout the 



U.S. and around t 
hour during the i 
News reporters on 
then be able to rec 
and utilize them ii 
Carl Vandagrift, 



&gt;rld ( 
ay and evening, 
he campuses will 
:ive these reports 
their newscasts, 
■-president and 



general manager of WOWO, said I 
was pleased that the Westinghouse 
Broadcasting Corp, and his station 
could provide this service to the 



educational stations and students on 
the campuses. 

In the past, the audio portion of 
the television network and other 
connections to the campuses have 
been used from time to time in order 
to link the radio stations. But, each 
use of these connections required 
special efforts by every participating 
campus as well as the IHETS master 
control. With the installation of a 
dedicated radio network, the stations 
will be able to originate and receive 
programming on a daily basis. 

All five of the stations on the 
network employ students. The chance 
to work with the Westinghouse news 
reports will give students valuable 
experience and provide an example of 
news reporting. The Westinghouse 
service also includes feature stories 
and commentaries. 

David Wilson, assistant director 
of operations for IHETS, notes that 
the network will be flexible. The 
standard connection of the network 
will be a feed to all stations from 
Indianapolis. However, it will be 
possible by making special arrange- 




i the Student Unk 



for 



Sabbatical musical learning experience 



"After World War II when Vienna was almost totally destroyed, 
the first thing to be rebuilt was the opera house." 

This was the statement made by Dr. Andrew H. Harper, Jr., 
chairman of the division of music, when he was asked about the music 
in the European society. His wife and four children joined him in a 
recent four-month stay in Europe. They traveled throughout the 
continent attending concerts, operas, and other appreciative fine art 
events. 

Harper began his sabbatical in August of 1973. He and his family 
spent nearly three months in Vienna and a month in England where 
Harper was doing some research on the Dickens era. 

They also had a chance to cross the iron curtain into Hungary. 
Between stops they visited other famous sights in Europe. 

Harper seemed quite content with the adventure and implied he 
would have liked to stay longer. He summed up the pleasures of the 
trip by replying, "We had a great time!" 

Dr. Harper was impressed with the artistic society of the 
European countries. He referred to Vienna as "the music center of the 
world." Vienna has two opera houses in addition to concert halls and 
other music facilities. It (as well as most of the other European cities) 
also has many museums, several that contain paintings by some of the 
greatest artists of the world. Harper and his family viewed some of the 
best paintings from the collection of Van Gogh. 

Harper said that the European society is more oriented toward the 
arts than the American society. The Europeans take advantage of 
their leisure time by attending concerts, recitals, and operas. The 
I, and make music an important 



Dr. Harper was also amazed by the cleanliness and concern of the 
European people. He noted that the streets and sidewalks of Vienna 
were kept perfectly clean. The people of Vienna seem to show more 
concern for their environment than the Americans. 

An episode involving Harper's son helped him to focus his 
attention on the concern the citizens have for each other. Dr. Harper's 
son was standing on a Vienna street corner slouching. Suddenly he felt 
a jab in the back, as a little old lady had poked him with her umbrella, 
forcing him to straighten up. 

The music chairman commented that the people of Vienna are 
very proud of their society, and their fine music facilities are 
indicative of their living pleasures. 

Harper and his family were overjoyed when they were given the 
opportunity to visit Hungary. The people of Hungary are restricted in 
many of their activities, but like Austrians, they have a music-oriented 
society. Dr. Harper and his family enjoyed mingling with Hungarians, 
but were alarmed at the presence of soldiers. At every railroad 
crossing and other strategic points throughout the country, there were 
soldiers posted with machine guns. Because of this, there is a very 
strange atmosphere than even during holiday times gives a visitor an 
uncomfortable feeling. 

Dr Harper recalled that "Hungary was a nice place to visit, but I 
wouldn't want to stay there. The people are absolutely marvelous." He 
went on to express the fact that it was only the limited freedom that 
hindered the comfort of their society. 

Dr. Harper and his family often felt out of place in Austria. It is 
very uncommon to see a Viennese family with as many as four 
children. The situation was similar throughout most parts of Europe. 

They were able to save money by not eating out every night and by 



staying in bungalows and places among the people rather than in 
hotels as foreign tourists. They rented a small car (or their travels 
throughout the continent. Dr. Harper also noted that the prices in 
Europe are fairly reasonable Tickets for concerts and operas are 
about the same price in Europe as they are in the United States, and 
other things like food are priced only slightly higher. 

When asked to compare the music with that of America, Dr. 
Harper said, " the Europeans have greater facilities, but I don't see 
any real difference as far as talent is concerned. The Americans have 
an inferiority complex. Musicians feci that in order to make it big they 
must go to Europe. Not many Americans would go to hear a black 
opera singer from Mississippi, but yet a black woman singer from 
Mississippi is currently performing in the largest opera houses in 
Europe." 

Dr. Harper continued to talk about the Americans' acceptance of 
Europe as the music center of the world. Americans, in their 
industrialized society don't associate themselves with the arts. 

Harper, the chairman and associate professor of music at IU-PU, 
graduated from Furman 1 'diversity. Greenville, N. Carolina, in 1957. 
He continued in his education and rojeh-ed lir Masters from Florida 
State University in I9G2. He achieved his doctorate in 1967 from 
Indiana University. 

He is glad to be back in Fort Wayne, but admits it was niee to get 
away from the daily monotonous routine. The sabbatical eased many 
of the pressures that build up in the university community 

Harper noted that the sabbatical was a learning experience, as 
well as one of pleasure. As a teacher, spectator, and participant he was 
able to learn more of the music field, and was made aware of the great 
impact music has among societies throughout the world. 



Ed»torfalli| 
Speaking 



CALL ME MS. 



Arabs act like fisherman's wife 



Fee increase 



Next fall IU-PU students will be paying an extra dollar per credit 
hour. This will raise the charge to $21 per credit hour and increase the 
annual tuition for a full-time student approximately $30. 

Some people on campus believed this fee increase to be dedicated to 
Building D, an academic structure that was suspended during the 
planning stages because of lack of funds. This assumption was false: 

That extra dollar will go to the retirement of bonds already sold for 
buildings already in use. This would include all four major buildings on 
this campus. 

It would also include debt retirement on construction on other I.U. 
and Purdue regional campuses. One such example is Northside Hall, a $6 
million building at I.U. -South Bend. Nearly all other regional campuses 
in the two systems have had recent expensive construction projects. 

Exactly what are IU-PU students paying for with this $30 tuition 
increase? Most would not object to paying for Fort Wayne Campus 
construction or other local academic costs. On the other hand, most 
would object to paying for Northside Hall or other off-campus projects. 

What makes this whole mess suspect is the fact that the tuition 
increase was across-the-board for all I.U. and Purdue regional 
campuses. The rationale the universities used with the Higher Education 
Commission was that legislative appropriations were not high enough, 
therefore student fees had to be raised to provide sufficient operating 

It is time that the students at IU-PU are told what their fees are used 
for. It is time that they are told why there is a $30 tuition increase and 
what it will be used for. It is time IU-PU students are told what that seven 
(or eight) dollar an hour building fund pays for. 

No doubt they are asking these questions in South Bend. 

School song revised 



Words with special apology to Jane Prochnow Nusbaumer, Brenda 
Rouse, Sue Cook, and Kathy Blee. Sung to the tune of "Hey, Mister. Can 
You Spare a Dime?" 

IN BLACK AND WHITE 



By AUDREY GELLIS 

"The Fisherman and His Wife" is 
a fairy tale of Arabian origin, which 
despite its sexism, should required 
reading for the Arabian oil potentates 
who are literally dictating economic 
and foreign policy to industrialized 
nations. 

An impoverished fisherman, in 
this fable, catches a fish who is 
actually an enchanted prince and who 
offers to grant any wish in return for 
his life. The humble fisherman 
requests only a feeding trough for his 
pig, but when his wife hears his story, 
she sends him back to ask for a 
comfortable cottage to replace the 
miserable hut they live in. 

This wish is granted, but shortly 
thereafter, the wife makes her 
husband ask for riches, then a 
mansion, a castle, a kingdom-all of 
which are granted in turn. Finally 
comes the ultimate demand-"Make 
me the empress of the sun and the 
moon." The fisherman returns home 
after making this last request and 
finds his wife in rags in their original 
squalid hut. 

The oil-rich monarchs of the 
Mideast, who barely 40 years ago 
were the tribal chieftains of penniless 
desert kingdoms, may find them- 
selves back in the penury from which 
the discovery of their fantastic oil 
reserves (53 per cent of the world's 
supply) rescued them. 

Do these sheikhs and colonels 
really doubt that the country whose 
10-year crash program put men on the 
moon can't develop substitutes for 
petroleum energy within a reasonably 
short time? How long do they think 
such a project would take with the 
cooperation of Japan and Western 
Europe? 

The most obvious oil substitute is 
coal, of which this country has such 
abundant deposits that expert esti- 
mates on our reserves range from 300 
to 1,500 years (England and West 
Germany also have ample coal 

The problem with coal has been 
that it is a "dirty." highly polluting 
fuel, but recent technological break- 
throughs can "clean it up." A new 
process converts coal to pollution- 
free, highly efficient gas; other 
processes can remove the fly ash and 
sulfur gases where coal itself is 
burned. It is only a question of 
applying on a large scale what 
several utility companies have devel- 
oped on an experimental basis. 

Nuclear energy, whose safety and 
economy is still being debated in this 
country, is a reality in others. The 
Soviet Union has just completed its 
fourth nuclear power station in what 
is only part of an active nuclear power 
program. France expects to fill half of 
its energy needs from nuclear power 
by 1980. 

Low-cost energy is available from 



U.S. TV beautiful to Russia 



By RICHARD SOKOLOWSKI 



to himself Comrade Semionoff Com- 
fortably seated in the main room of 
the Russian Electronic Surveyance 
Ship, he incredulously faced twenty 
TV screens with U.S. programs he 
was monitoring. Not a single com- 
mercial. On channel 1 a poet was 
reciting his verses, channel 2 had a 
panel discussion with white and black 
sociologists, architects and politi- 
cians on the problems of inner cities, 
on channel 3 an agriculture expert 
was talking to the farmers about new 
ways of raising cows, channel 4 had a 
travelog about some African country, 
channel 5 was offering a lesson in 
Japanese, channel 6 finally had a light 
show, but a man invited along with a 
dog trainer was a philosopher and 
talked about joy of life. 

Semionoff noticed similar pro- 
grams on other screens and hastily, to 
reassure himself, switched on the 
radio-monitoring system. The 
thing! No commercials, some songs 



cultural and social news. Two 
hundred ten million Americans listen- 
ing to that! Comrade Semionoff 
shuddered and started to write his 
report to the high authorities. He has 
to call their attention that something 
ominous is happening in the USA, 
which needs instant action. If, such 
mass-media programs would go on, 
an average citizen would be awaken- 
ed to social and political problems 
and might in turn force the establish- 
ment and its politicians to bring forth 
reforms. The corrupted imperialistic 
country was in danger of not 
collapsing. 

He thought of possible solutions. 
The Russians could bear pressure on 
the American government to return to 
old media programs, using as a threat 
the oil import quotas. Or, they could 
lend the money directly to the 
networks, to stop these harmful 
practices. Anyhow, it was compltcat- 



5 there were right 



CDF horror story and r 
cials. Everything was again in order, 
and future was reassuring. He saw his 
country becoming a leader of the 
world and the punisher of the corrupt. 
He smiled at the visions of smoke 
from rebelling American cities and 
prison riots. He anticipated with 
delight the cracking of automatic 
weapons in civil wars, mixed with 
advertisements of Coca-Cola. The 
America with Its Rich and Poor was 
going down the drain and the world 
was beautiful. 

He started to watch the DFG 
channel more intensely. He had some 
personal worries and needed relaxa- 

The Boby Soap show was now in 
full progress. He got involved in the 
' dancing girls and 
The world was 




what are now considered exotic 
sources. "Pyrolsis," the new technol- 
ogy of converting garbage into 
low-grade fuel gas, is already 
grinding up tires for fuel in Japan. 
And an English inventor, Harold 
Bates, is marketing a device which he 
claims can fuel an automobile by 
converting manure into methane gas 
It may be a joke now, but there will be 
few laughs when motorists start 
lining up at barnyard gates. 

The wind and the sun are both 
free, and infinite sources of power. 
Giant sea-going windmills and un- 
manned satellites to harness this 
energy are still only in the talking 
stage, but buildings utilizing solar 
energy for heating and cooling are 
actually under construction. Geother- 
mal energy, which comes from the 
molten rock deep within the earth's 
core, while presenting serious tech- 
nological problems, has been utilized 
successfully to heat Reykjavik, the 
capital of Iceland. 



under the oceanfloor as there is under 
the Arabian desert. It is more 
expensive and difficult to extract oil 
for the sea than from sand, but it has 
been and is being done successfully. 
What the Mideast oil czars now 
reveling in their power seem to have 
forgo'len is that the affluence of the 



Mecca three times a day for oil - are 
going ahead full steam with plans to 
become energy self-sufficient. 

And when that day comes - and it 
will soon - one can easily predict that 
King Faisal and his cohorts will be 
told what to do with their oil.* 

Of course, they can always go 
fishing in the desert for another 
miracle. 



Even if we wish t&gt; 
fuel, so 



Quotes to 
remember 



To look up and not down, 
To look forward and not back, 
To look out and not in, and 
To lend a hand. 

EDWARD EVERETT HALE 

Keep your face to the sunshine 
and you cannot see the shadow. 

HELEN KELLER 



PURDUE 
COMMUNICATOR 



ST. JOHN'S JOURNAL 




"I just want you to know I'm, er, sorry- 



Hamilton-Jefferson conflict 



By JEFFREY ST. JOHN 

NEW YORK (CNS&gt; - "Domineer- 
ing, arrogant, aristocratic," observed 
the historian Felix Gilbert of Alexan- 
der Hamilton, "and convinced of an 
elite's right to political leadership, 
Hamilton tended by inclination to 
power politics." 

The modern liberal mind embod- 
ies the above unsavory aspects that 
afflicted Hamilton, who fought Thom- 
as Jefferson for the establishment of a 
strong central government. The 
between both Founding 



of powerful goven 
powerful government and a powerful 
presidency, a topic discussed in a 
recent TV discussion program, "The 
Open Mind," with this columnist and 
historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. and 
former senator and presidential 
candidate Eugene McCarthy. 

In 1974 Congress and the Ameri- 
can people will be called upon to make 
a judgment whether President Nixon 
should be impeached for the alleged 
abuse of power. It is, therefore, 
important to understand the roots of 
the problem of the powerful presiden- 
cy. 



"impure Hamiltonian" while claim- 
ing that my preference for Jefferson- 
ian philosophy of limited government 
could not work in today's complex 
industrial society. Both Schlesinger 
and McCarthy ignore the fact that the 
Hamiltonian concept of unlimited and 
vigorous government is not working. 
Furthermore, as Democrats, both 
decried the decay of the two major 
parties and attributed this as a cause 
for the rise of the powerful presiden- 
cy. 

SI. John: "It seems to me that 
Jefferson formed the Democratic 
Party to fight the First Bank and fight 
the whole idea of Hamilton and his 
kind of neo-mercantilism. This con- 
flict started as a trend in this country 
that has led to the very problems we 
are discussing. Jefferson, of course, 
was no friend of vigorous government 
and he wanted to separate politics 
from economics, like he wanted to 
separate church from state..." 

Schlesinger: "Mr. St. John has a 
different, very considered and very 
consistent position, but one which it 
seems to me that would not enable 
government to meet the complicated 



interdependent industrial society, it 
couldn't run on that position. If 
Jefferson were alive today he would 
see what we see: that to achieve his 
ends requires the intervention of the 



i haw 



Jeffersonian means from ends. 

"I think the means, which were 
appropriate for a small agricultural 
society to achieve Jeffersonian ends, 
are inadequate to achieve those ends 
in a large industrial society. I think 
my commitment is. to Jeffersonian 
ends, I think your commitment may 
be more to Jeffersonian means." 

St. John: "Means as well as ends, 
because I think they are inseparable. 
I think the Jeffersonian ideal is more 
imperative and practical today be- 
cause it seeks to limit the scope and 
power of the state to intervene in 
people's lives. The young people who 
followed Sen. McCarthy were talking 
about these very things in terms of the 
depersonalization that took place in 
i, for example, because 



I the 






has both modern and historical 

relevance It was Hamilton's belief in 
the "means justifies ends," which so 
offended Jefferson. 

This same doctrine, which Prof. 

LANSKY'S LOOK 



Schlesinger advocates and believes 
can be separated, continues to be the 
justification for vigorous govern- 
ment in spite of having produced 
Watergate. 



Lubell observed that the hidden abuse 
and aspect of Watergate was the 
economic power of the President, to 
manipulate elections, the former 
presidential adviser under John F. 
Kennedy agreed. 

"I think the kind of situation 
which Samuel Lubell describes, and 
Jeffrey St. John just mentioned, is a 
result of the extent to which the 
President himself is able to dictate 
those economic priorities," he said. 
"He will shift government funds into 
those parts of the nation of those 
sectors of the country which are going 



The Hamiltonian belief in strong 
government is collapsing under the 
weight of its own deficiencies and 
excesses. The alternative is to 
embrace the philosophy of Jefferson, 
whose concept of decentralization and 
separation of politics from economics 
with modern-day life. 




"Wear new underwear in case you're stopped for 
a traffic violation and have to strip for a 



Multiple Sclerosis 
Marathon raises 
little over $1400 





Varsity cagers drop 
20th tilt of season 



REDWOOD INN 

ANNOUNCES ITS 

FEBRUARY SPECIALS 

Tues: Sausage rolls Thurs: $1 off an 



30c off 



large pitcher 



Wed. nile ladies nite mixed drinks '/£ off 

specializing in sausage rolls, pizza &amp; draft beer 

1432 W. Main Parking in rear 422-8995 

"YOU MUST BE 21" 

"if you're nol try our carry-out service " 



Parnell Park From 

$115.01 
APARTMENTS £ TOWNHOUSES 

(Furnished or Unfurnished) 

Open 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Daily 

'aturday 9 to 6 p.m. Sunday 1 to 6 p.i 

7025 Ridgewood Dr. Phone 483-3196 



Riggs named 
'biggest loser' 

jus! keep on coming! Top 

partake of extravagant ban- 
quets and promotions, and 



hered to administer a 
i grilling lo the fellow 

i slaughtered in last 



If you compare, 
you'll select /Etna... 

If you don't compare, 
I't say we didn't warn you! 




irged to check Ihe schedule for I 



McKay sees it 
all in 'My 
Wide World' 

HOLLYWOOD (CNS) - 
The surpassing delight in 
reading .lim McKays hook, 
fittingly called My Wide 

.il and pleasant, a hard-eover 

agreeable talkers. Jim McKay 

Tf style is the man, then 
this volume reflects the ess- 
ence of McKay, a sports 

of ihe tragedy of the Munich 
Olympics two years ago 
produced a high watermark 

sion in broadcast journalism 
McKay about those awful 









"Reporting, 
simply the comn 

job is to tell as clearly ; 
accurately as he can the facts 
of the situation and, in the 
case of television, to explain 

image on the screen. Most 
subtly, I think the reporter 



IcKay d 






a hundred different 



■ )"-ri.r|)!]i&gt;[i-. ..nil Ilis riiK 

ins finely tuned and - for u 

imeii.scl&gt; rewardiiii! blew 



WE'VE GOT THE LITTLE ONES 

-GAS SAVERS- 

6-GREMLWS 8-MAVERICKS 

5-VEGAS 4-NOVAS 

2-PWTOS 3-VW'S 

IF YOU WANT A BIG 'UN 
SEE US - WELL SAVE YOU A BUNCH 

LOCATED ON COLDWATER ROAD ACROSS FROM GLENBROOK 
PHONE 

484-9671 



Fort Wayne/American 



a 



SPORTS 
SHOTS » 




r OF A TRUE AMERICAN HERO 

Yo already know thai he rewrote the NFL record book for running backs in 1973. For 
weeks and weeks now you have read about him in nearly every conceivable publication 

Is he just another star professional athlete basking in present but short-lived glory, a 
newsmaker soon to be forgotten in the wave of future standouts and their feats? 

No, not one O.J. Simpson. His personal triumphs in action in 1973 were matched by no 
other, and his ofi'-the-ficld staiure affords O.J. the stamp of a truly remarkable man. 

As a young black on the streets of San Francisco, you can het that O.J. got into his share 
of trouble. He's the first to admit it. 

But in college it was instant glory. Southern California University will never again have 
it so good. It was a sweet time for O.J. as he became loved by everyone, a hero, and a 
unanimous Heisman Trophy winner. 

Then he was dialled by Ihe worst team in prof not ball and for (wo years I oiled in oblivion 
with the hapless Buffalo Bills. They pay was good, but the frustration and endless ridicule 
seemed destined to continue forever. With inept coaching and sparse talent, the Bills 
managed only one triumph in 1971. People began whispering that O.J. Simpson had seen his 
best days and would be lucky to hang on as just another average NFL rusher. 

He didn't complain once, though, or blame his teammates or coaches for the team's poor 
showing. He continued to work hard at his game and remained always the optimist through 
the bleak days. 

In 1972 the Bills did improve but were still a long way from being a serious contender... or 
so it seemed. 

Football predictors in 1973 pre-season polls foresaw another dismal campaign for 
Buffalo. But in the first regular season match with New England the dam broke. 

O.J. broke the NFL single game rushing record, gaining 250 yards in the Bills' romp over 
the Patriots And, to make this part of the story short, O.J. and even his team as well, 
dominated the football headlines for the rest of the year. 

The Bills just missed the playoits as a wild card team, but the season was a big success. 
A winning nucleus had been at long last established with O.J. leading the way. 






. O.J. 



i the i 



After his memorable breaking of the 2,000 yard mark on the last day of the season, a 
mass of humanity surrounded him in the Bills' locker room. He was to be the subject, the 
only subject to be interviewed and praised. 

But O.J. had other ideas lie waded through the throng and found every last one of his 
teammates who had helped him attain the unattainable. He dragged each one to the 
microphones and caret ul I y noted their accomplishments which made it possible for the team 
to have such an unexpectedly successful season. 

His teammates were stunned and glowed with admiration for their brother. The scene 
was nothing short of dynamite. 

People now swarm around O.J. wherever he goes. Bar nothing, he always has a warm, 
sincere smile and will remain where he happens to be until every last autograph is signed. 

No one is ever brushed off by the superstar, as attested by this story: after the 
triumphant Atlanta contest and post-game interviews, O.J. found time to relax and asked 
someone to get him a nice col J orange drink i what else" i A little boy immediately emerged 
from the crowd of people and offered O.J. a can of orange-flavored pop. 

"Thanks, but this one is warm, and I'd like a cold one," he said. Another man laughed 
and commented, "He's been holding it for an hour, waiting to give il to you." 

Without hesitation O.J. took the pop from the boy and said to him. "In that case I'll not 
only drink it, I'll drink a toast to you." 

Privacy is rare to O.J. now. But it just doesn't bother him. He insists that the world share 
in his glory. 

Naturaly, reporters have asked him what he would like to do for an encore. They should 
already know. 

O.J. would do anything to see that his mates get into the playoffs in 1974. He wouldn't 
mind at all being held to fifty yards a game or less - as long as "the Buffalo Bills collect a 
playoff berth. 

Veteran UPI scribe Milt Richmansumsit all up well: "In thirty years of covering sports 
I've never seen anything like it. What makes it all the nicer is that he does it so naturally. He 
enjoys sharing his success." 

So, that simply leaves us to share in O.J, Simpson's success. But maybe, too, we can 



Alii 



i .o'oimd 



TAKECARKM'niiTM-KKAKs 1 




