Indiana University 



Purdue University • Fort Wayne 



The Communicator 



INSIDE: 



i Pomp &amp; Circumstance 

IU inaugurates Adam W. Herbert as 
17th President of university Page 2 



Not Punishment 

The latest cartoon- to -movie stays 
true to dark beginnings. Page 6 



I Playoff bound 

IPFW VolleyOons prepare for 
MIVA post season. Page 10 



Volume 34, Issue 2? 



www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Wednesday, April 21, 2004 



'Reinvest in America' 



Legendary Civil 
Rights leader 
speaks Monday 



Well-known Civil Rights 
leader Reverend Jesse Jackson 
delivered a speech on multiple top- 
ics at IPFW Hilliard Gates Sports 
Center on Monday. 

Jackson, who has worked 
since the 1960's with Civil Rights 
issues, was in Fort Wayne at the 
request of Eleventh Missionary 
Baptist Church's Rev. Isaac Fincher. 
Fincher serves as the president of 
the local chapter of Jackson's 
Rainbow/PUSH Coalition. 

Jackson began his speech 
addressing the public inside the 
gymnasium on the growth of 
African American life. In the same 
part about growth, Jackson 
addressed the long-standing quest 
for equal rights between all races. 

"We must live together at 
brothers and sisters, and not die 
apart as fools," said Jackson. 

Jackson continued by stating 
the youth of America grow up 
thinking they should put a wall 
between them and those of a dif- 
fering race, choosing walls over 
bridges. Jackson stated that he 
believes that we should share 
God's sunshine on all people. 

"He is an incredibly powerful 
speaker, said IPFW Chancellor 
Michael Wartell, while pointing 
out that Jackson is very charismat- 
ic. "No matter if you agree with 
him or disagree with him, he is just 
an unbelievably powerful commu- 
nicator." 

Jackson also spoke of prob- 
lems in the job market. He noted 
that 3.3 millions jobs have been lost 
in the last year in the United States. 
Also mentioned was the fact that 
every state has a net loss of jobs 
and has more black citizens in jail 
than in school. 

"Just as the American athlete 
deserves an even playing field in 
the athletic Olympics, a worker 
needs and even playing field in the 
working Olympics," said Jackson. 
"We need to put America back to 

Though his speech on equal 
work and jobs, Jackson stayed true 




Photo by k,-llu K^/.il 

Reverend Jesse Jackson 

speaks at a press confer- 
ence Monday evening. 



No congressman has 
i child in Iraq 
tonight. No Wall 
Street investment 
banker has a child in 
Iraq tonight. The 
poor are dying/' 

Jesse Jackson 
April 19 at IPFW 



to his main point of expanding 

racial equality. Jackson pleaded the 
crowd would not forget why they 
must come together across the 

Along the same lines as equal 
work was Jackson's thought on 
health care for all American, not 
just those of higher class. Jackson 
went onto question why people 
who make hospital beds couldn't 
afford to sleep in those beds when 
they become ill as an example of 
poor health care rates. 

Continued on Page 3 




r Aaron Smith works on a water color proj'ect 
; outside earlier this week. Warm weather 
brought much of the campus outdoors. 



Craftsmanship, saftey 
of housing questioned 



A 10-minute presentation 
about potential troubles with the 
construction of Waterfield Student 
Housing was met with mixed 
reviews by the IPFW Faculty 
Senate, but ended with a committ- 
ment to look into some of the ques- 

1PFW Assistant Professor of 

Labor Students Catherine Mulder 
brought a presentation Monday to 
the group's meeting, showing what 
she considered evidence of flaws in 
the buildings. 

"If you're paying* Its 3 million 
for good craftsmanship, you expect 
it. I haven't seen it," she said. 

What she's seen, she showed 
the body. Among the photographs 
in the presentation were pictures of 
apparently moldy wood, wooden 
staircases she deemed a possible 
fire hazard and evidence of seem- 
ingly-shoddy construction. In one 
photo, there is a significant differ- 
ence in inches between a wood 
framing above a doorway in one of 
the units from one side to the other. 

She also pointed out gaps in 




Assistant Professor Catherine Mulder attempts lo demon- 
strate to the IPFW Faculty Senate potential troubles with 
some construction at Waterfield Student Housing. 

flooring and walls, saying those Her major concern is with 

too were signs of poor craftsman- potential mold troubles. 

ship along with possible fire haz- "There's evidence, and it's 

ards. Most of the work she showed throughout," she said. "I think any 

has been since covered over with 

wall work or carpet, Mulder said. Continued on Page 3 



IPFW Relay raises $8,000 



"IPFW in Paradise" took place 
Friday, April 16 and Saturday, 
April 17 at Hilliard Gates Sports 
Center and raised an estimated 
$8,000 for Relay for Life's fight 
against cancer. 

The first annual event, held 
with the American Cancer Society 
drew around 100 people. However, 
ACS, Carmen Parker cited the low 
numbers to the fact that few people 
knew about the 18-hour-event. 

The event gave many oppor- 
tunities not only to raise money for 
the fight against cancer, but to pay 
tribute to those who have battled 
cancer in their lives. During the 
"Victory Lap," many cancer sur- 
vivors from Ihe surrounding com- 
munity walked a celebratory lap 



around the track together, signify- 
ing their victory over a disease that 
claims the lives of one in three 
Americans each year. At sundown, 
luminaries were lit in honor and in 
memory of those who have battled 

Parker was also surprised at 
the fact that many entire teams 
stayed for the duration of the 
event, despite the high tempera- 
tures and good weather outdoors. 
Against a normal tradition of the 
Relay events, "IPFW in Paradise," 
was held indoors due to early con- 
cerns about the weather. 

Parker cited the relay event at 
the University of Michigan as a 
base of weather related concerns, 
Michigan's event, held outdoors, 
was cancelled the night of the 
Continued on Page 8 




Photo by tin-mtii /unci 

IPFW students Tera 
Spencer, Jenna Fleenor, 
Andrea Sherwood, Renee 
Centers and Justin Harber 
walk during Relay For Life 
Friday night. 



Omnibus year ends with 
'finest writer of our time' 



The last speaker in the 2003- 
2004 Omnibus Lecture series 
offered a different proposal for the 
audience. 

"I promise this isn't a lecture," 
said Joyce Carol Gates. 

The highly acclaimed writer 
spoke April 13 before a crowd of 
approximately 330 people reading 
selections from her poetry and 
prose, in addition to comment and 
insight into her process as a writer. 
At the request of the speaker no 
cameras recorded the presentation, 

"To state Joyce Carol Oates as 
one of the finest writers of our time 
is an understatement," said 



Michael 




Kaufm.inn, 




professor 




of English 




at IPFW 




ductory 


F - ■ 




r "^^Bj 


the lecture. 




"If it's 




written, 




Joyce 





Joyce Carol Oates 

°f' eS X spoke April 14. 

already r r 

likely 

turned her hand to it," he said. 

The "astonishing variety" of 

forms written by Oates encompass- 



es nearly all of the possible forms 
of the written word, said 
Kaufmann. "Her published works 
would take the better part of the 
evening to list," he continued. 

The speaker is the recipient of 
numerous literary awards, includ- 
ing the National Book Award and 
three honorary doctorates; plus she 
is a three-lime Pulitzer Prize nomi- 
nee. She currently holds the Roger 
S. Berlind Distinguished Professor 
of the Humanities chair at 
Princeton University. 

Oates alternated between 
offering insight into the "spiritual 
dimensions" of writing, as she 

Continued on Page 8 



1% 



a deaf world out loud 



ASH Pah! hosted 'It's 
A Deaf, Deaf, Deaf, 
Deaf, Deaf World' 
bringing hearing and 
non-hearing 
P a S e L communities together. 




double-downed 



page 10 



IPFW's baseball team 
dropped a double- 
header over the 
weekend, btit are 
looking to rebound. 




Page 2 The Communicator 



News 



April 21, 2004 



Signings of the times 



Despite initial pmblems, this 
year's "It's A Deaf Deaf Deaf Deaf 
Deaf World" look off with great 
success, officials said. 

Walb Union was filled with 
the sounds of people laughing and 
papers rustling as "signers," both 
experienced and novice, lalked 
with one another. Some signers, 
new to American Sign Language 
(ASL) struggled at first, but quick- 
ly grew more confident in their 
signing ability. 

The basic concept behind this 
annual event is simple. Hearing 
people are thrown into a world 
where Ihey can experience, for 
Oven just a few hours, what it's like 



lbeii 









Participants 
sheet and the room is set up with 
different tables (representing 
stores, cafes and hospitals) and 
they have to communicate effi- 
ciently Iheir needs with the people 
sitting across from them. 

These store owners, wait- 
resses and doctors, are members of 
the local deaf community, some of 
which have been participating 
since the first year. 

Many of the volunteers at 
Deaf World are deaf themselves, so 
their signing abilities are high and 
they sometimes move much loo 
fast for those signers jus! starting 

"It's easy lo get frustrated," 
said Nichole Hondorp, a first 
semester signer. "Signs fly by so 
fast that I have to really concentrate 




ASH Pah! President Hope Hart (left) and N1DAC 
President Donald work with those attending "It's A Deaf, 
Deaf, Deaf, Deaf, Deaf World" April 14. 



on every move that's made." 

Many of the deaf community 
enjoy coming out and getting 
involved with the new signers. 

1 lic\ en|n\ w.iti lung penple devel- 
op their abilities and love teaching 
people new signs. 

Activities during the two 
hours included a Deaf Culture 
quiz, daily interaction exercises, 
and emergency announcements 
(such as a flood announcement) 



that required reaction from the par- 
ticipants. 

After the interactive period, 
participants listened to a very 
entertaining (and interactive) pres- 
entation and awards were distrib- 
uted to the highest scorers. 

For more information con- 
cerning the ASL Pah! Club, and 
upcoming events, individuals can 
contact them at 

aslpah@holmes.ipfw.edu. 




1PFW seniors Erica Davidson and Stephanie Filicsky sign \ 
during "It's A Deaf, Deaf, Deaf, Deaf World" April 14. 



olunteer from NIDAC 



Have a serious interest in journalism? 

The 2004-2005 staffing of 

The Communicator takes place soon. 

Stop by Walb 215 and get involved. 



Editorial Board 

Scott M. Lawson, Editor 

S.G. Wahlberg, Managing Editor 

Kurtis Meyers. Arts &amp; Entertainment Edito 

Nick West, Sports Editor 

Katie Pruitt. Copy Editor 

K.K. Casey, Chief Reporter 

Josh Vargas, Advertising Designer 

Aiden Bordner. Advertising Manager 

Done Reynolds, Publisher 



Contact Us 

The Communicator 
Walb Union; Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Editor: (260)481-6584 

Publisher: (260) 481-6585 

Advertising: (260) 481-6583 

Fax: (260)481-6045 

www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



New 




Indiana 




University 




President 




Adam W. 




Herbert 




looks on 


*^m1 


while his 




inaugural 




event took 


^■j 


place April 




15 at the 




Bloomingt 




on campus. 




Herbert is 




the 17th 




president 




for the uni- 




versity and 




called the 




institution 




'a cathedral 




of learn- 




ing/ 





'A cathedral of learning' 



By Andrew Welfle 

Special to The Communicator 



Rl i mining ton ~ Organ music 
resounded through the Indiana 
University Auditorium Thursday, 
April 15 during the Inauguration 
of President Adam W. Herbert, the 
seventeenth president in IU's 180- 
year history, and the university's 
first minority president. 

"This isn't something that hap- 
pens every day," said Dr. Claudia 
Johnson, Professor of Geology at 
IU Bloomlngton. "This is only the 
17th inauguration that has ever 
happened here, in all the time IU's 
been around." 

The ceremony was started by 
Marilyn Keiser, the Chancellor's 
Professor of Music and organist. 
The delegates filed in to the audito- 
rium in two lines, led by Edwin C. 
Marshall, the University Grand 
Marshall. Also present were for- 
mer President Emeriti Gerald 
Bepko, John W. Ryan, and Myles 
Brand. Chancellors from all eight 
of the IU campuses attended as 
well, including IPFW Chancellor 
Michael Wartell. 

After a performance by the IU 
Philharmonic, the Moment of 
Installation of Office was per- 
formed by Fred Eichorn, Jr, 
President of the IU Trustees. After 
receiving the traditional gold chain 
and mace of office, Herbert spoke 
of his plans in office. 

Herbert frequently referred to 
Indiana University as a "cathedral 
of learning." 

"The opportunity before us 
today is to shape and lay the stones 
that will serve as the foundation 
for expansions and additions, new 
spires and buttresses for this mag- 
nificent cathedral of learning," 
Herbert said. 

He discussed what he refers to 
as a "mission-focused, multi-cam- 
pus university." He said because 
each of the campuses has unique 
strengths in its academic concen- 
trations and faculty skills due to 



the needs they serve, the collective 
strengths define IU. He said "coop- 
eration and collaboration must be 
our primary focus." 

Wartell said that because 
IPFW is mainly a Purdue-run cam- 
pus, the Fort Wayne campus can- 
not follow Herbert's directives as 
closely as the other satellite cam- 

"We do have a part in it, but the 
part will be muted slightly by the 
fact that we're a shared campus. 
Both Purdue and IU missions are 
represented, and we have to be 
careful to be sensitive to both," 
Wartell said. "We have a strategic 
plan that is part of Purdue." 

He said that IPFW will reflect IU 
issues, as it falls in line about IU's 






sity. 



Herbert spoke of an advance in 
research collaboration with other 
universities, proposing a "research 
corridor reaching north from 
Bloomington through 

Indianapolis, and extending to 
West Lafayette," thanks to state of 
the art optical fiber infrastructures. 

He also said that IU must be 
more competitive in keeping its 
faculty, because of the relatively 
low salary the university pays. 

"On each of our campuses we 
must maintain a long-term goal of 
bringing the salaries of both facul- 
ty and staff more in line with those 
of our peers, against whom we 
compete for their services," 
Herbert said. 

Similar to the unified campus 
proposal, Herbert's raising of 
salaries may not affect IPFW's fac- 
ulty and staff. 

"Purdue is our fiscal agent and 
managing partner, and has to 
approve most of what we do," 
Wartell said. "Academically, we 
work with (both campuses)." 

The reception following the cer- 
emony features Herbert's favorite 
flavor of cookie: oatmeal raisin. 

"One of the chancellors sitting 
next to me said, T don't eat oat- 
meal,'" Wartell said. "My wife said 
they were good." 



Editorial Policy 



Editorials are the opinions of 
The Communicator. The opin- 
ions expressed do not necessari- 
ly reflect the views of IPFW, its 
employees or its student body. A 
column is solely the opinion of 
its author. 

The Communicator wel- 
comes responses from readers. 
Letters to the Editor and guest 
columns must be signed, dated 
and accompanied by a current, 
valid address, telephone number 
and class standing/major or title. 
Letters not meeting these 
requirements will not be consid- 
ered for publication. 



All submissions made via . 
mail will be verified by tele 
phone or in person. Addresses 
and telephone numbers will not 
be published. 

Submissions must be typed, 
double-spaced and no more than 
400 words. 

The editorial board of The 
Communicator reserves the 
right to edit all submissions for 
leneih. •iiammur. style and clar- 
ity "Letters deemed" libelous b\ 



any circum- 



April 21, 2004 



News 



The Communicator Page 3 



Jesse Jackson 

Continue from Page One 



Jackson then began to break 
into the ongoing conflict in Iraq 
and the Middle East The biggest 
crowd reaction of the night came 
during a Jackson led chant of 
"Bring the boys home." 

Jackson, who has visited Iraq, 
Syria, Cuba and Yugoslavia to help 
rally for peaceful solutions to 
ongoing conflicts, went into the 
need for a finely honed dialogue 
between the leaders of the United 
States and other countries. 

"We need to uphold diplo- 
matic principals and human 
rights," said Jackson. "No con- 
gressman has a child in Iraq 
tonight. No Wall Street investment 
banker has a child in Iraq tonight. 
The poor are dying." 

"His kinds of idea, the whole 
spectrum of ideas are important to 
expose on the campus," said 
Warteli. 

Jackson took his vocalizations 
about the conflict in the Middle 
East and used it to cite specific 
examples for his feelings on the 
availability of guns in America. 
Jackson stated 120,000 people are 
injured each year with guns and 
that instead of the billions that go 
into gun purchasing and medical 
expenses for those injured, that we 
should all "reinvest in America." 

"It does not make sense to 
(make available) assault rifles on 
our streets. You are not using AK- 
47's to hunt rabbits and deer," said 
Jackson, adding a jovial twist to 
lighten up the crowd on the serious 

Jackson's next foray was vot- 
ing rights and responsibilities. 
Jackson, who made several state- 
ments about the rights of particular 



voting matters, made clear to the 
audience that he feels that if you 
don't vote, then you forfeit the 
right to criticize. 

Jackson's assistants then pro- 
ceeded to pass out forms to get 
unregistered young people in the 
audience signed up to vote in May 
and November. 

He wrapped up his speech 
talking about his impending work 



NCAA to 


"The whole 


help high- 
er the 
gradua- 


spectrum of 
ideas are 


African 


important to 
expose on the 


will be 
meeting 
with the 


campus." 
Michael Warteli 
IPFW Chancellor 




leaders of 

the NCAA throughout the next 

week on the matter of the low 

black graduation rate, which 
Jackson calls 'appalling.' 

Before he left for a trip to 
Indianapolis, Jackson spoke briefly 
about his coalition and took a few 
questions. During the brief ques- 
tion and answer period, Jackson 
said that he has no plans to run for 
President again (his 1984 and 1988 
bids for the Democratic nomina- 
tions were unsuccessful, and he 
hasn't sought office since.) 

"Look at the community that 
it has brought into the campus," 
said Warteli. "You can't ask for bet- 
ter than that and that's one of our 
goals, to bring folks to the campus 
and make the campus more part of 



Donating 
a little life 

Dozens of IPFW students 
and faculty assisted with a 
Blood Drive held April 16 
at Walb Student Union. 

Above, senior OLS major 
Jayla Heller attempts to 
relax while her blood is 
drawn. 

Right, IPFW sophomore 
computer science major 
Kevin Ford prepares for the 
needle for his turn. 

Student organizations 
held the Blood Drive with 
the local American Red 
Cross. 

(Photos by Dan Vance) 




Housing concerns discussed 

Continue from Page One 

mold is problematic. People who have major health issues, it can be detrimental to their 
health ... but I think breathing is as important as studying," Mulder added. 

IPFW Physical Plant Director David Danielson assured Mulder he will look into the 
mold question by doing a myriad of inspections. 

"I would never allow buildings to be built that have mold in them," Danielson said. 

University officials also balked at some of her allegations, saying the photos seemed to 
have been from the early portions of construction, and improvements have been made. 

"There's no reason to doubt this is going to be a safe environment for students," Vice 
Chancellor for Financial Affair Walt Branson said. He invited the Senate members to take 
tours. He also noted officials hadn't seen Mulder's pictures until Monday's meeting. 

"We'll be happy to look into those ... we've looked into everything that we've heard 
about that's come up so far. Safety has been our foremost concern in this project. Has been 
from the very start and it will continue to be," he said. 

The photographs were apparently taken by construction workers who came in after the 
intial labor was done and they were faced with odd questions for themselves, Labor Studies 
Coordinator Mark Crouch said. 

"How do you put brick on a building when the wall is crooked?" he related. "(There 
were) all kinds of structural problems done by the basic framing crew, the roofing crew," 
Crouch added. 

Along with members of Labor Studies, trade union officials from the region were on 
hand at the meeting to give their opinions about the structures. Members on hand included 
officials with the Carpenters and Painters unions. 

Mulder's intentions were questioned by a few members of the Faculty Senate, who 
seemed concerned their first awareness of Mulder's worries were through an article last 
week in the Journal-Gazette. 

"Buildings can be repaired. Reputations are very hard to repair," Psychology Associate 
Professor Lesa Rae Vartanian noted. She said the presentation indicated Waterfield may be 
unsafe, but the presentation also acknowledged they were unaware what - if any - inspec- 
tions had been conducted. 

Others defended Mulder's actions, saying the presentation was a needed voice. 

"The idea that this should be covered up and not allow dissent be heard is dispicable," 
English Professor John Brennan said. 

Engineering Professor Gerald Voland noted Mulder's lack of involving Danielson was a 
mistake, saying contacting him was basic homework he would expect from a student. 

"Mr. Danielson could give a balanced perspective and some responses to these con- 
cerns," he said. Voland also said the photos were taken at a time before final inspections on 
each site would be completed. 

( "Much of the work is done on a construction site is done at the very end in order to sat- 
isfy inspectors desires to have everything according to code and spec. Adjustments are made 
at the end of the project," he said. He said he appreciated her concerns and said it was appro- 
priate to be looking at the situation, including the mold. 

Branson said inspections are being conducted through Purdue University, and not 
through city or local agencies since it is a state project. 

"Inspections are being handled through Purdue with the same diligence," he said. 

Danielson noted anytime any part of the project has been finalized, there have been 
inspectors to sign off on the final steps. Branson said those check-off sheets were probably 
public record and - if so -- would be open to inspection from anyone who wants to see them. 

Mulder expressed she wants the buildings to be in good condition. 

"I'm here as a member of the community to say I don't think this is right," Mulder said. 

She noted in the past, complaints about the project at the local level have been balked, 
and concerns were relayed to Purdue or the Department of Labor, but local officials have 
stayed out of the fray. Some work site contractors have been finded for safety hazards involv- 
ing workers and workers have sued for not receiving pay in accordance with the Common 
Wage laws of the state. 

She conceded she perhaps should have discussed it with Danielson, but didn't. 

Waterfield, a seven unit facility, will house over 550 IPFW students when it opens. It is 
currently scheduled to open in the fall with 250 students already rented. 

K.E. Casey and 5.G. Walhberg contributed to this story. 



Student Government and The Office of the Chancellor present: 



THE FOURTH ANNUAL 




Thursday, April 22, 2004 

(Weolher Permitting) 

11:00am -3:00pm 

on the 

Grassy Knoll 

between Neff Hall and Classroom Medical 



All IPFW Students, Faculty and 
Staff are inivited to join us for: 

•Free Food 

• Awesome Music 

• and More! 




W 



JOIN US TO RING OUT THE YEAR! 



Page 4 The Communicator 



Opinions 



April 21, 2004 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or 

abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the 

right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the 

government for a redress of grievances. 

Editorials 

The Abuse of Patriotism 



Ityofi 



;ed, an 



Patriots .ire volunteer firelight 

lev, ji.iy Patriots .Hi.' police ollm r- 

People who join the armed ton 

our country - ore patriots. They ha 1 

it is so crucial far thee" 

lar, 



allowing a leader because he shows bravado and speaks like the major- 

h miirrnni' orvonr I'.il holism is usually much more quiet. It is helping 
I doing so williout want of recognition or any type of payment. 
L'lighltTs. training and risking their lives tor very little credit and even 

■d lorn'- - not eM lusivelv for college money, but also to do their part (or 

; say in where they go, and what they do - and that is why 

s to make sure (heir missions are acceptable, not just momentarily popu- 

xpressed with 



Patriot!) are those who attend local governmental meetings ensuring \ 
terns to local dollars. 

Among all these patriots are the clii hod bad apples. I hey use their status as a source of power 
and personality, hut not to better humanity. These are not patriots; these are parasites, file publie-al- 
l.ngr nihil gels to know these individuals It's usually when they've done something idiotic - extort- 
ing money or hurting someone, abusing their power in some fashion. 

In the vast majority of circumstances, it's important to judge these individuals as just that. 

There are individuals who claim patriotism, Most of those who do so are overcompensating for 



tpatr 



orking for a volunteer lire department None will be leaving their 
multi-million dollar homes to feed quietly the needy in a community kitchen. They wear the titles of 
pah iot either for their political or artistic beliefs to better their bank account -not add to a civic dis- 

( -eorge W. Bush isn't a patriot. He's just a president. And he's barely a veteran. His cowboy per- 
son,! has yet to help other than connecting to the lowest common denominator. John Kerry isn't a 
patriot. He's just a politician. He's perhaps more of a veteran, but his acrobatics as a legislator shows 
his bravery in ihe Held of battle didn't translate to a strong spine in Congress. 

Patriots aren't made through wearing a flag or espousing certain political point of view. They are 
raised by families who teach their children what civic duties are, and why they are important. 

Those hellbent on having patriot ism equated with the GOP's or Democrats' policies aren't speak- 
ing of palriutism They are speaking ot nationalism I hat ethnocentric mindtrame is the slippery slope 
thai loads to places like Germany in the TOOs or Afghanistan in the 1990s. 

Duke gets an 'A' 



3 that 



begir 



s like a good bandwagon in jump on early. 

Currently, ll'PVV has a minority of classes slated to begin at H a.m. We need to moke that none. 
Students come to ll'PVV from .is far a way as I at, range and Huntington lo go lo school here. The drive 
alone puis students on the road tor an hour, and gives little lime (unless students are needing to wake 
up at 6 a.m. for pre-school drive time). 

The 8 a.m. hour also makes it difficult for study groups to do just that. Study. Classes that meet 
later during Ihe day have Ihe ability lo be belter prepared than those that meet at 8 or 9 a.m. Most of 
us have experienced study sessions that have prepared us tor examinations and course material -and 
the best study sessions aren't done over a bowl of Fruit Loops Study sessions work best when the 
grogginess of the morning has been shaken loose through a leu hours of simple activities. 

It's not that we're lazy as students, but the majority of us have live- Iradiiional sludents don't. 

Many of us work third shift and could use a one or two hour break for a power nap or cram ses- 
sion in the morning. Many of us have lo contend with (in winter months) dealing with school delays 
that may end with us having to miss a class because our children are delayed in public schools. 

And when it comes to our GPA versus our children, our GPA is going to take the hit. While our 
children appreciate it in the short run, it would bo nice for the university to see that sacrifice and help 
us in the longer marathon ot education. 

Traditional students benefit as well from this idea; otherwise, Duke wouldn't consider it -much 
less act on it. 

So that's a proposal. Duke University has a good idea, and it's one we should incorporate. Let's 
say goodbye to 8 a.m. classes and hello to wider-awake education. 



Word of the Week: 
Fornication 



College is the one point during a young person's life when they are the 
most free to do as they please Yes, they must work and attend classes, but in 
their free time thev usually have very little else to worry about. This four year 
liberation tends to lead to a high rale of "adventurous" behavior regarding the 
pleasures of the flesh. College students are well known for their appetite for 
alcohol, drugs, and sometimes, rampant fornication. Of course, these youthful 
pursuits do not come without their repercussions: hangovers, overdoses, and, 
in most cases, and an overwhelming sense of guilt are usually looming just 
around the bend. &gt;, 

While regretting hangovers and overdoses is understandable, feeling guilty 
because one has engaged in intercourse is hardly so. American society is one 
that condemns celebrating the pleasures of the flesh, but it does so without any 
logical reason. This condemnation comes down especially hard on women, 
who are much more likely to experience remorse and guilt after a one-night 
stand than her partner (assuming that partner is male, of course.) In fact, it 
seems that men are persecuted far less for being promiscuous than women; 
after all, there is no male equivalent for the label "slut." 

It is unfair that women must deny their natural tendencies and desires for 
fear of societal disapproval while men are applauded for doing exactly the 
opposite. Women are forced by their culture to sublimate their desire for 
pleasure and satisfaction while men are given free range to go about seducing 
whenever and whomever they please. What makes men so different from 
women that they are more worthy of experiencing pleasure than women? 
Certainly there is nothing but a cultural stigma that allows this kind of double 
standard to continue, and it is about bme that this stigma ends. 

There is absolutely nothing wrong with a woman who wishes to engage in 
safe and consensual sex in a casual manner. She is no less worthy of love or 
respect because she chooses to celebrate her body and take hill advantage of 
her opportunities to en|oy it. Her body is no less beautiful and her mind is no 
less respectable because she decides to participate in something as natural and 
enjoyable as sex without getting married to. maintaining a relationship with, 
or even knowing the last name of her partner As long as she is responsible 
regarding contraceptives and regular check-ups with her doctor, she is no loss 
worthy than a man who engages j n the same behavior. In fact, she should be 
just as applauded and respected as he, because she has chosen to live as she 
wishes and not as this sexually repressed society would force her to. 

It is certain that many who read this column will have strong disagreements 
with it. It's nol right, some might say, for women to go around behaving in 
such an unseemly manner Sex is bad 1 Sev is evil! Its unfortunate that we even 
have to engage in it to reproduce 1 We should do it through a sheet! Better yet, 
let's just grow all our babies in tubes and complete!) segregate the genders 
from one another! Ahh, yes, that's certainly a Utopian society Take away all 
the pleasure and joy in life, because pleasure and joy are most definitely what 
is wrong with this world. 

In reality, the only thing wrong with this world is the idea that denying our 
natural urges is acceptable behavior. Ladies, gentlemen, go forth and pursue 
happiness, and don't feel guilty tor enjo\ ing vourselves because someone else 
tells you it's supposed to be like that There is only one thing to feel bad for: 
being someone you are not for the sake of appearances. 



The 

Communicator 



Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed i: 
editorials or opinion columns do not necessarily reflect the views of IPFW. it 
employees or its student body. A column is solely the opinion of the author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from readers. All Letters to th 
Editor and guest columns must be signed, dated and accompanied by a current 
valid address, telephone number, and class standing/major or title. Telephon&gt; 
numbers and addresses will not be printed. All submissions made vie e-mail 
will be verified by telephone or in person. 

The editorial board reserves the right to edit all submissions for length, gram* 

lar, style and clarity. 




Campus 

"What do you tWnk of the new speed bump on Broyles?" 



Hi 
J 



Priyanka 

Dasgupta, 
MBA Student: 
t't like it 
I being there 
because it 
slows traffic a 
great deal, 
especially because it's so nar- 
row. It's an inconvenience. 




Stephen 
Bush, 

■You can see 
the scratches 
on the ground 
from the cars. 
It's a really 

big problem to go over that. 

Plus you see cars backing up 

into the roundabout. It's a 

big hassle. 




they shouldn't hav 
probli 



April 21, 2004 



Opinions 



The Communicator Page 5 



War 9.0 coming to a 
store near you 



"Yeah, come on all of you, hiy; 
strong men, Uncle Sam needs 
your help again/He's got him- 
self in a terrible jam. Way down 
yonder in Vietnam/So put down 
your books and pick up a gun, 
We're gonna have a whole lotta 

erm that caus- 
i many people. But 

just what is it? Making a persua- 
sive argument? Telling lies? 
Webster's Dictionary defines it 
in the following ways: 

1) The systematic propagation 
of a doctrine or cause or of infor- 
mation reflecting the views and 
interests of those advocating 
such a doctrine or cause. 

2) Material disseminated by the 
advocates or opponents of a doc- 
trine or cause: wartime propa- 

3) Propaganda — Roman 
Catholic Church. A division of 
the Roman Curia that has 
authority in the matter of 
preaching the gospel, of estab- 
lishing the Church in non- 
Christian countries, and of 
administering Church missions 
in territories where there is no 
properly organized hierarchy. 

big business. It requires lots of 
money to fund bombing, shoot- 
ing and reparations to those lost 
in combat. To fund fully a prop- 
er war, you need thousands of 
volunteers, lots of machinery 
and fuel and every now and then 
a leader who will step out onto a 
balcony and give reason for this 
month's war. When you add up 
the costs of a war, obviously 
taxes or a bake sale wouldn't 
fund everything. That is where 
propaganda comes into play. 

Ever since the Civil War, adver- 
tising and corporate backings 
were given to help fund wars. In 
the Civil War, to help amass 
troops, African Ameri 



dent to be freed after their . 
ice. Now, if you shrug off the fact 
that some went from oppression 
of war to oppression of race 
afterwards, there have been 
some slip ups. But hey, you 
know what they say? If you 
don't read the fine print, then it's 
all legal. 

After the Civil War ended, 
there was no use for propaganda 
and advertising. There was no 
war to sell, no guns to promote 
and no "Big Bob's Bomb 
Bonanza" to get off the ground. 
Thus, propaganda died until a 
new thing came along. 

"I Want You For the U.S. 
Army" the sign read. Uncle Sam, 
glaring and pointing like a 
grandfather who caught his 
grandchild urinating in a potted 
plant, declaring his desire for 
young men and boys, anywhere 
from 15 to 25, to enlist and help 
fight the Huns in the "War To 
End All Wars" but alas, propa- 
ganda had a foe to deal with this 
time around. This foe was called 
the "Machine Gun." Both sides 
toyed around with the idea, 
Germany had their designs, 



American and Britain had their 
own. Point being, both sides 
were taking heavy casualties, 
thus making propaganda work 
even harder to churn out the 
desired targets. .1 mean bodies 
needed to fund this war to end 
all wars. 

When the guns full silent after 
World War I, propaganda took 
on new roles with the onset of 
World War II: The Sequel. 
Radios, leaflets, recruiters and 
the draft ail assisted in getting 
the message out that Uncle Sam 
needed us once again. Ah, the 
draft. Sending thousands upon 
thousands of our boys off to war, 
without our having any say in it 
whatsoever. I always wondered 
what it would he like to be draft- 
ed. If it happened to me, I'd 
show up in a dress standing on 
one leg screaming "Come On 
Guys, let's go find Jesus!" 

Through World War II, Korea 
and Vietnam, the draft took 
away from the job of propagan- 
da. It did the work for it. No 
leaflets or radio programs, no 
lectures or sales to pitch to high 
school graduates. Just an 
address and a postage stamp 
and before you knew it, you 
were thigh high in a rice paddy 
with someone shooting at you 
who wanted to kill you and all 
you wanted to do was go home. 
Throughout the years after- 
wards, it took a different turn. 
Advertising turned into con- 
quest in a way with the onset of 
oil wars. Gas prices fluctuating 
as much as the stock market and 
politicians making fights for the 



wars, it seemed. It 
drug, the drug of an entire 
world. Making us tick, move and 
even kill for it. Like an addiction 
to herion, oil was no different. 

Now, in 2004, we are again 
lighting another war using prop- 
agand.i The draft has been abol- 
ished, so now propaganda will 
reign supreme. Selling us a new 
and improved war, "WAR 9.0," if 
you will. The stakes are still the 
same, fighting for something we 
need or because someone 
wronged us. Fighting with the 
same young men and women as 
before, fighting with the same 
guns and bombs War 4.0 is still 
working the same way, like a 
machine with a million cogs. 

It takes in the young of our 
country and spifs them out, it 
takes in our money and uses it, 
then charges us more and more 
for upkeep. War is a bad invest- 
ment. It doesn't increase in 
value, it doesn't maintain itself. 
You need to throw fuel in it con- 
stantly and you need to be ever 
vigilant of how far it goes. Then, 
when something dies or 
breaks... whether it is mechani- 
cal or biological, it must seek 
replacement immediately or War 
9.0 will not work. Read the box, 
heed the warnings and look for 
the real reasons of buying into 
this product. Is it for our glon or 
someone else's? Is anyone riding 
in on the coattails of one nation-, 
freedom looking for a free ride? 
War 9.0, coming to a store near 



DO YOU HAVE AN OPINION ABOUT 
SOMETHING IN THE COMMUNICATOR? 

Make your voice heard. 

Submit a Letter to the Editor and 
let everybody know what you think. 

Letters in Ihe Editor should be no more than seven him 
died words long. Submit your thoughts directly to Tin 



Pizza Hut or Subway: 

Lack of variety shows blatant disregard for 
student needs 



While it is not always pru- 
dent to look ahead before the 
concerns of the present are taken 

see what changes are in store for 
IPFW next year. The student 
housing (remember, we can't say 
"dorms") will move our campus 
into a semi-traditional state, 
from a Pinocchio "commuter 
campus that could" to a "real 
live" campus, where students 
have a greater stake in the 
goings on — because at least 
some of the student body will 
live here. 

I look forward in the 
upcoming years to see an 
increase in student involvement 
in activities on campus. After all, 
if you are here, you might as 
well get invoked in something 
Students will finally have a rea- 
son to be on campus outside of 
class; I can only hope that the 
SAB and student government 
will take the initiative to maxi- 
mize the benefit of having these 
students close by (and never, 
ever again spend money on a 
NASCAR simulator). 

Things are looking up for 
IPFW; however, 1 find itama/ing 
that the administration of the 
school allows a glaring problem 
to continue to exist even though 
they are making such wonderful 
advances in the areas of housing 
and Division I sports. The peren- 
nial problem is the issue of 



absurd. As a student involved in 
an organization on campus, 1 
personally can attest that it is 
terribly frustrating to see that 
the Subway in the basement of 
Walh is not open on weekends or 
in the evening when I return 
from classes after 4 p.m. No stu- 



off 



■oiuellung i-i 



itndi 



ongri 



the old (and perhaps dangerous 
to our health) toffee machines 
have been replaced with new 
(more expensive models), and 
the snack vending machines are 
always slocked lull with snacks, 
this cannot replace having the 
opportunity to get a good break- 
fast. 



or food court that serves the stu- 
dents for more that just a few 
hours only on weekdays. 
Secondly, a coffee cart 



ll'RY could manage to have 
of the coffee chains in town 
iffee shop in Walb, it 



letters to the 



Religion, morals 
irrelevant in gay 
marriage debate 



Dear Editor, 

I have recently heard 
something on the radio that was 
disturbing to me. I realize one of 
the big arguments today is the 
issue of homosexual marriage. I 
hear about it all the time. I get 
somewhat confused at times and 
scared of what could happen but 
for the most part I never com- 
ment. I wouldn't comment until 
that day on the radio 1 heard for 
the first time the slogan for a 
politician that said, "I believe that 
marriage is between a man and a 
woman not the gays" and 1 began 
to think about things. I would 
hope that I could be the voice of 
reason and maybe give some- 
thing to think about. After all. it's 
not often that you get a public 
statement from a heterosexual 
woman that is for homosexual 
marriage. 

I would like to point out 
a few things that seem wrong for 
me to say, and I mean no one any 
harm or offense. There are a few 
main arguments that keep com- 
ing up in this issue and 1 want to 
show you how these things don't 
hold a strong enough argument. 
We hear two dil'iereni argument- 
on the basis of religion and 
another I hear come up is the 
moral argument. I want to tell 
you why 1 think these aren't 
strong enough arguments. 

If the government feels 
the need to get so much involved 
with the sanctity of marriage, the 
marriage is no longer a matter of 
religious beliefs; it is made into a 
government issue. This now 
blows the religious stand out of 
the water because of separation 
of church and state. Another 
argument on this stance is that 
marriage is religious and only 
religious and the government has 
nothing to do with it and this is 
how it should be. News flash for 
you people the government has a 
lot to do with it and will always 
have something to do with it. 
There are people who marry for 



money alone and people who 
divorce and gel alimony Couples 
today sign prenuplial agreemenls 
to save their assets. The govern- 
ment is very involved with mar- 
riage but for the sake of argu- 
ment that they weren't. This is a 
question that no one can give me 
a good answer to. If a homosex- 
ual couple were both Christians 
would I hey he able to get married 
if the government was not 
involved? People have told me 
that they aren't real Christians if 
they are gay and that answer is 
unacceptable to me. If the 
Christian God can cast out my 
friends (hat I have who are gay 
because of who they are, and 
being gay is a part of who they 
are, then thai is not a God I want 
to believe in. 

The moral argument is 
easy to shoot down because 
everyone has different morals. 
Morals are your own take on 
right and wrong and you cannot 
push them onto others. Everyone 
has morals and everyone who 
does anything ^n^\ says it was a 
moral judgment has some people 
in the world saying that it is 
immoral to do such things. 
Morals are not an argument 
because it is impossible to inflict 
another person with your own 
personal morals. I have problems 
with morals myself because I 
can! begin to think how it is pos- 
sible not to justify morally a 
homosexual couple bill be ready, 
willing and the sick fact is able to 
justify morally beating up a 
homosexual and for no reason 
other than the fact that they are a 
homosexual. Then, ihe moral 
argument should be stricken 
from the record. 

We live in a constantly 
growing nation and we, as peo- 
ple, need to grow with it. I have 
been told that the only reason 
that homosexuals want to marry 
is to get the perks that married 
couples get and this may be true. 
If it is, why shouldn't they get 
these things'* Thev are people. 
too. I truly believe that they want 
to get married to their partners 
because they love them and want 
to spend the rest of their lives 
with them. Why shouldn't they 
get to do this? They are human 
beings who fall in and want a life 



However, there are no plans 
to remedy this situation at the 
moment; the student housing 
rooms come complete with a full 
kitchenette, and therefore stu- 
dents will be able to cook and eat 
in their rooms— or so the reason- 
ing goes. However, simply 
because one has the opportunity 
to cook in his or her house does 
not mean that they should be 
denied the opportunity to eat 
ready-made food on campus, 

Many times the threat that 
"yevur tuition will have to 
increase" is raised in an attempt 
to strike fe.ir into our hearts (and 
pockethnnks) that the costs of 
running a food court would sim- 
ply be too much to hear. I hate to 
sound pessimistic, but to put it 
simply: it's not like IPFW isn't 
going to raise our tuition any- 

Until the cafeteria situation 
is remedied on campus it will 
represent a flagrant neglect of 
the needs sludent body. It is 
only sad that this problem con- 
tinues to exist, because it lessens 
the Other great advances of our 



ditor 



wilh their lovers. This to me isn't 
too much to ask. I hope one day 
they will no longer have to refer 
to their boyfriends or girlfriends 
as life partners but they will 
wake up one morning and be 
looking at their legally licensed 
husband or wife. 

This gay marriage argu- 
ment makes me angry, yes, but 
most of all it scares me. I am so 
afraid that the way it is going 
now with the "gay bashing" will 
only get worse because some 
politician wants In get more votes 
by calling them "the gays" and 
our own president doesn't even 
look at them as people but some- 
thing immoral. I don't want my 
friends to have to put up with 
names and fights because of who 
they are when they shouldn't 
have to put up with things like 
that they are people too, 

This country has turned 
into one big contradiction and it 
makes me sick. We can go over to 
a country and change the way of 
life there because we think we are 
the right way to be. No country 
has gotten it right yet and this is 
what we fight so hard against. 
Freedom of religion is gone 
because still, after everything, 
Christianity is (he only religion 



it will be illegal to be gay. I don't 
understand how we got here but 
we did it to ourselves. 

I don't mean any harm 
just to get people to think about 
iliings, and I may be wrong. If I 
am, I would certainly like to be 
corrected, but if I'm not, I urge 
you to think about the things I 
have just said. I am for homosex- 
ual marriage for reasons that are 
not because I have homosexual 
friends and not just to get atten- 
tion but because I don't see how 
it's any different from two het- 



love and getting married I don't 
see why homosexual Americans 
should have to ask permission. 



Page 6 The Communicator 



A d &amp;E 

arts and entertainment- 



April 21, 2004 




The Punisher doesn't want to save the world he just wants revenge 



Ifs 



t the &lt; 



Justice, not punishment has finally been served. 

Longtime or ever short-term fans of The Punisher," in 
comic book form know what f am talking about. Justice has 
finally been done in taking the cartoon bad boy to the big 

Though, no matter how good the script was, Director 
Jonathan Hensleigh (who io- wrote the film) had a lot to 
prove after the flop of the 1989 "b-movie" version starring 
Dolph Lundgren. 

Casting was key to the success of this movie and a 
tremendous job was done Thomas Jane (Frank Castle/The 
Punisher) finally was given a break out role and did he ever 
break oul fane's delivery made him the most believable 

Most fans of The Punisher 's history had a tough time 
swallowing Jane as Cattle during the production of the 
movie. Yet, Jane doesn't seemed fazed by the bash-ready 
critics during interviews, showing that he really believes in 



y made the movie was that of 
guns Ben Foster (Dave) and 
I), along with veterans John 
I Will Patton (Quentin Glass) 



fravolta (Howard 

made the moMehellcvahle 

Foster does wonders in his first real "adult" role. The 
former Disney Channel child actor has a lot to prove about 
his depth and range. And his "The Punisher," role does a 
pretty decent |ob of helping him in that path. Other than his 
lead role in the 2IH12 Showtime movie "Bang Bang, You're 
Dead," this is Foster's best shot thus far in his career at a 
defining role. 

Carpinello played Ins role, the son of bad guy Travolta, 
to perfection This is Girpinrllo's first in,i|or motion picture, 
but his talent show's through like his an old pro. 

One of the numerous ironies uf the movie (intentional 



,ot)v 



s thiil Carpinello plays Travolta's 



i. The 



The Punisher 

Rated R • 2 hr 04 min 



Coldwater Crossing: 12:20, 3:40, 7: 
Rave Motion Pictures:i2:00, i:00, 3: 

7:05, 7:35, 10: 



mark in the film when Castle's family is finally killed. 

One of two downsides to the film was the humor. 
While some of the humor from secondary characters was 
needed to keep the film from being too dark, some of it was 
too over the top The biggest issue with the jovial times was 
that too much of it came from Jane. White most Jane's 
humor was sarcastic and dry, it was just too much for a man 
who is supposedly lost and dark. 

However, some of the one liners and the irony of par- 
ticular parts do have a positive affect, lane (who's only pre- 
vious large role was as Mickey Mantle in the New York 
Yankee film '61 ) has line in which he mentions that he "used 
to get upset when the Yankees won the series," showcasing 
part of the irony. 

The other downside was Rebecca Romijn-Stamos. The 
woman can't act and the producers could have saved a lot 
of money to have an unknown actress play the same part 
just as well. Other than those two things, the movie was well 
put together The directors and producers managed to find 
i good median between a comic book, happy go lucky vibe 
' 'fe action film. 

i fan that you have to be of Jai 



when the character basically brawls with lane and has no 
lines. If only Romijn-Stamos would have followed Nash's 
lead and kept her mouth shut. 

The film gave lane the feel of more than just a renegade 
vigilante and allowed him to be viewed as a thinker. Instead 
of just blowing stuff up (which he did a lot of) and shooting 
people (he also did a lot of that,) a good deal of thought was 
put into the build up and behind the scenes planning of 
Jane's character toget revenge on all of the members or the 
Saint family. 

The fight scenes were key and worked well to show- 



making this a credible action film and not making viewers 
believe that The Punisher was super human. 

The impactful lines and quotes also helped make Jane 
very believable as Prank Castle/The Punisher. While his dry 
and ironic humor did fake a bit awav from his dark nature, 
he did sell the deeply troubled role hard and quite well. 

Line's such as "if you want peace, 

I prepare for war," and replying "god's 

an sit this one out," when told to "go 

with god," showcase the troubled charac- 




that is Castle. 

Perhaps the most important part of 
this adaptation is that a person who has 
never read the comic book can walk into 
this movie and not be lost. In addition, it 
stands pretty true to the comic book 



"The Punisher" sets the record 
straight for all comic book adaptation. 
Because, whether you are new to this 
story or if it is an old friend, you are 




Concert fans backbone of any band success 



Nothing can stifle the human 
spirit. Nothing can shuffle loose 
the ability and wanton desire to cut 
loose and have a good time in any 
way possible Ever since 3 days of 
peace, love and music took place in 
1969(For you non-rock n roll fans, 1 
am eluding to Woodstock.. .the 
first one), the "Live Concert" has 
been the catalyst for numerous 20- 
something's to let go their daily 
grind and either relax or vent all 
the frustrations of 9-5 life, 
although, the venting usually 
occurs in the face of some unsus- 
pecting fan-boy who yells out for 
the wrong song during ihe opening 
set. But you know what they say, 
you'll have that. 

But the atmosphere that con- 
certs provide isn't one of violence 
or rampant sex and drugs, usually. 
For most, concerts are a gathering, 
a celebralion of music in its rawest 
form. Bands that truly enjoy the 
music produce the best concerts, 
which in rum produce the best 
crowds. One of the best concerts I 
can say 1 have been to, and I have 
seen everyone from Rage Against 
The Machine to Bruce Springsteen, 
rocked the Coliseum Expo Center a 
few weekends ago. 

1 got turned onto Of a 
Revolution or "O.A.R.' about two 
years ago during a mountain bike 
race. When it comes to music, I will 
listen to anything once, whether it 
is rap, rock, country, techno, SKA, 
EMO, hardcore, punk or anything, 
I have no pent up bias to anything 



heart it sounded. It's about a girl 
and the band didn't try to hide it or 
make it bitter. Granted all these 
thoughts didn't go through my 
head at that exact moment, but 
when 1 purchased O.A.R.'s third 
album Risen 1 was sold by their 
sound alone. 

They have a mixed sound, a 
cross between reggae and rock n 
roll with a little bit of a country- 
sounding backbeat. This gives the 
listener a nice little path to follow 
through the rock n roll jungle. The 
perfect mix of heartfelt woes and 
songs of celebration to make any 
party that much better, personally 
their live album Any Time Now is 
the best for any occasion, seeing 
how their studio track of "That 
Was a Crazy Game of Poker" does- 
n't hold a candle to the 14 minute 
powerhouse version on the album. 

But that is what makes OAR. 
the kind of show band they are; 
they are fun. At a typical O.A.R. 
'; (Granted this is my bias, I 



ered a visual and musical celebra- 
tion on a platter of peace, love and 
prosperity. Of the three concerts I 
nave been to, the band usually 
opens up with a few acoustic num- 
bers. At the April 10th show, they 
threw in a passionate version of 
Bob Marley's "Redemption Song" 
that had even.' person in the Expo 
Center swaying to and fro and 
holding onto someone around 
them. The message of pacifism and 
love was conveyed so well that I 
don't think anyone in there could 
have committed an act of violence 
that night. But that was just the 
first three songs. 

For those people who it was 
their first time seeing them, they 



oi reggae guitar riffs and a 
saxophone serenade that 
would make Mr. John 
Coltrane himself clap with 

When O.A.R. per- 
forms, they don't just play 
new songs and they don't 
play old songs with any less 



of energy as a band that 
playing their first show ever. 
I think that is one of the fac- 
tors that sell a lot of college 
students on them; they don't 
play favorites. When in high 
schools you see teachers fab- 
ricating grades and harbor- 
ing contempt for students for 
certain reasons, college stu- 
dents are tired of that. O.A.R. 
doesn't write songs for one 
sect of people, they don't 
cater to a certain group more 
than another. They write 
songs for people in everyday 
life about everyday events. 
They write abut real places 
and real occasions and they 
express this to the listener in 

But with the entire 
music aside, the one thing 
that makes an O.A.R. show spec- 
tacular isn't just the music, but the 
fans. I have never seen or been 
pressed together more genuine a 
crowd than at an O.A.R. show. 
People who aren't afraid to have a 
good time and let themselves go 
(The main occurrence 1 can think of 
is a drunk mustering about the 
crowd shouting "That cop stole my 
marijuana! Isn't that a crime?" )The 
intoxicated coeds who are bustling 
about flashing people to gain fur- 
ther distance towards the front pro- 
vide almost a comedic counterpart 
for the bands onstage antics. With 
the smell of cigarette and dope 




swirling vortex of the crowd and 
reggae music coming out the loud 
speakers, the band plays their 
sounds of freedom. Bob Marley 
would be proud at each one of their 
shows. 

But that's rock n roll right? 
Celebrations of excess and jubila- 
tion in the form of people, music 
and controlled substances, it's a 
wonderful thing. To hear music 
about life and freedom come 
together in a musical prize that 
prompts us to do things we would- 
n't normally do. Try things we 
wouldn't normally try and influ- 



O.A.R. provides a series of 

songs and an atmosphere that will 
either change you are ore you. 
There is no happy medium with 
them, you either like them or hate 
them. But this writer hasn't met 
anyone who has listened to one of 
their albums and walked away as if 
broken whiskey bot- 



April 21, 2004 



- arts and entertainment- 



The Communicator Page 7 



Philharmonic delivers 



Saturday niejit'? Philharmonic concert 
was themed "From Russia With Love". It 
opened with selections from Stravinsky's 
The Fairy's Ki-v Onpmallv written as a bal- 
let for Ida Rubinstein. Stravinsky adapted 
many of Tch.iikovsk\ 's pieces fur this work. 

Hints of Tchaikovsky could be heard 
throughout the several 'movements per- 
formed (Prologue, A Village Fete, At the Mill 
(Pas de deux Scenel.and Epilogue), but more 
of Stravinsky was to be found as the orches- 
tra plowed (without pause for applause) 
through intentional dissonances and burst 
into the main theme .it regular intervals. An 
active ostinato would meander through the 
orchestra, to be put to rest by a lovely inter- 
lude. Then the ostinato would pick up again; 
sometimes it trotted among the woodwinds, 
sometimes the brass would hurry and stop 
the ostinato before it could jump in at the 
end of another interlude. Jigs would inter- 
rupt everything with technically difficult 
rhythms and instrumental solos interspersed 
the several movements. Finishing in the 
manner of Tchaikovsky's Nutcracker or 
Romeo and Juliet, the ending was interrupt- 
ed by more complex rhythms;, the trombone 
solo had the conductor tensely dancing on 
the podium as he and the trombonist suc- 
cessfully completed the passage. But, the 
orchestra finally brought The Fairy's Kiss to 
a close, to the loud applause of an almost - 
filled Embassy. 

Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake followed the 
intermission. Beautifully done, this 
arrangement by conductor Edvard Tchivzhel 
opened with the I ntn 'dilution, begun 
with a solo in the wood section with string 
accompaniment. This melody flowed into 
the ceflo section then rose in waves as the 
orchestra built toward the climax and the 
percussion section rose en masse to partake 
in the general din. The orchestra beautifully 
illustrated the opening scenes of the story as 
the horns awoke the orchestra folk to Follow 
Prince Siegfried. The second movement, The 
Ball, brought lorlh Ihe haunting melody of 
Swan Lake in the form of a solo, as though 

Ml.' ilillvh Mil e. i- .! I- &gt;:,l ivmilllin;', ! I. lie .it 

tragic adventure. The orchestra picked up on 
this attitude with an ominous mimicry of the 
solo in the brass section. The deafening cli- 
max of the piece let the timpanist have a riot 
on the drums before the quiet finish of the 



Sw; 

ss Odel 
arpeggiating as though the 
gracefully landing on the lake as the 
prince watched. Then, Concertmaster Ito 
began a violin solo/duet with cellist Tamaki 
as the prince and Odette began to talk. This 
was, as one audience member 

sation of the two at times, but every time 
there was a duet or solo, the entire auditori- 
um was nearly silent, all held in rapt atten- 
tion to the music, A rolling waltz with inter- 
esting modulations from major to minor 
swept after this interlude. Next, the percus- 
sion interrupted the dance with an nsistency 
similar to the 1812 Overture, filled with a 
proud and flamboyant march theme. This 
led to a bright brass fanfare with string pizzi- 
cato that crept into a string melody that 
sailed about the orchestra, reminiscent of the 
Nutcracker again. The violins scaled into the 
wood solo, then built up into a short tune 
and the fanfare again. A desperate clash 



evidently following the despairing Odette as 
the prince saw her as a swan once again. The 
strings swept with the sound of pouring rain 
after the flute, who was disconsolately 
singing the melody o! the second movement 
Tlie percussion blasted with the force of 
lightning as the strings picked up a hopeful 
thread of melody onl\ to be dashed apart by 
an evil cacophony of brass chords. The flute 
shrilled the melody like a leaf tossed in a 
vortex of wind, the strings pleaded as the 
brass nobly interceded and there was a 
serene interlude. 

The serenity was short lived, however, 
as the strings broke into a chorus of stream- 
ing rain with thunderous percussion. The 
percussion burst into a glorious racket with 
the gong, the orchestra letting out all the 
stops in a dramatic finish. The audience 
loved it and the auditorium gave the con- 
ductor and orchestra a standing ovation. 
Tchivzhel recogm/ed the soloists, kissed his 
hands to the orchestra, and accepted two 

One thing that could have been 
changed was the major ending to Swan 
Lake: for a piece that was mostly in the 
minor mode, it would have been more effec- 
tive to keep it minor, since Odette and the 
prince die anyway. But overall, Tchivzhel's 
arrangement was well done. Listen for it on 
89.1 FM on April 29. 



Have a serious interest in journalism? 

The 2004-2005 staffing of 
The Communicator takes place soon. 

StopbyWalb215 

and get involved. 



occxaicroc? 

GMBXGD 

The IPFW Department of Music Opera Ensemble will present "All's Well That 
Ends Well" at Neff Recital Hall from April 14 through April 17 at 7:30 p.m. 
Director Allen Saunders has assembled four delightful evenings comprised of 
three complete one-act operas, complete with staging, costumes and choreog- 
raphy. Performances will be held on April 14, 15, 16, 17 at 7:30 p.m. in Neff Recital 
Hall. Admission for IPFW students is free. Tickets are sold at the door and are 
$4 for adults, $3 for seniors and $1 for all other students. For more information, 
call the Department of Music, at 260-481-6714. 

The IPFW Department of Music will present the Saxophone Quartet and 
Saxophone Choir on Monday, April 19 at 7:30 p.m. in Neff Recital Hall. The 
Student Ensemble Series features an exciting showcase of student talent and 
the newly formed Saxophone Choir, comprised of students and members of the 
uty. The concert begins at 7:30 p.m. on Monday, April 19 at 7:30 p.i 



Neff Recital Hall. Admission for IPFW students with ID I 
for seniors and $1 for all other students. For i 
Department of Music, at 260-481-6714. 

The 2004 Biennial will take place at the Fort Wayne Museum of Art from June 5 
to Aug. 15. The event will showcase a selection of some of the best and most 
innovative art being created in America's heartland. Not only Indiana artists are 
included, but artists from all over the Midwest. 

A road trip to Chicago is being sponsored by the Fort Wayne Museum of Art 
Articulates. The trip will take place Saturday, June 12, at a cost of $35 per per- 
son. While in Chicago, visitors will see the finest art the Windy City has to offer. 

The Nature Conservancy in Indiana is holding a Conservation Conversation on 
Earth Day, Thursday April 22. A panel will discuss the state of Indiana's natural 
resources and what they could look like in the future. A photography exhibition, 
"Preserving Place: Reflections of Indiana" will be shown at the event. 
Attendance is free, and refreshments will be served. 



If you are a non-profit organization and you would like to have your news appear 
in the Community Calendar, please contact Kurtis Meyers, A&amp;E Editor, at the 
Communicator, at (260)481-6584 or at www.stupaper.ipfw.edu. 



'Mattress' is coming 



'I'lVVDep, 

■■'■■■■:'■ 

'''■ : ■ Prince H i -\ .. ■ ■ .i |J thTMimtnl 



■ lM ittess 1 n V" 1 - l 

■■■■■ majoi in theii senioi projei ts 



Based o 



'-■(. the catchy lyrics, Add 

I ■ lur.ulei ■ like Ihe 

■■-•) ind the mute Kmg I. II tin- stage with hilarious nor itop hi n mi 



Jay Thomi 
in Mary F 
blabbermouth Qu&lt; 
■ 

Directed ■ id cho , . . I i&gt;v i „ lv I i ,;. ON* I I POr \ M w rRESSfe, i 

■&gt;■■■■■ s..:)! cliuvtion mi Mel, i me \ mini. m- . i ml Undoes t, oviehtin , ISSIStant chonBOD 

rapher. "This show i&gt; perkvi toi the eiitiie J.muh .,nd I lie' ' llu- show is pi 

ous hin and a great time for the audienve and pei leo me,-, .ilikc i'.vi I i n &gt;\ ■. ,i . i 

TRESS made ( .uol B II ., l.i, ,-, .!,.■ ,-..,,i , , t r,,,,. . , ., | ier 1959 

Broadway debut. 

The musical begins at 8:00 p.m. on April 23 'A 19 10 and May I and al 
2:00 p.m. on April 25 and May 2 m William-. n,e.a,,- l ,-, reservation! ..til the 

Rox lHh.e 1.,-tueen I 'O ,. m .,,U i I0p m Monda) 1 rida] Bl 



Department ol Thi 
260-481-6555. rheboxofl , 



1 i] ! 



..tii ID, and$1 ! 



go sec- 



KILL BILL 



VOL. 2 



"better than the first one! 



-Kurtis Meyers 

TJie Communicator 

"two thumbs way up!" 

-Ebert and Roeper 





The new IPFW license plate is 
coming in 2005! 



INDIANA 



w fOOOO 



IPFW 



Sign up NOW to show your Interest, and we'll reimburse you the 
$15.00 specialty plate fee In 2005!* 



i (he form below (. 



Yes! I support the new IPFW License Plate 
and hope to purchase one In 2005! 



Name: 
Address: 



City/State/Zip: 
Day Phone: _ 
E-mail: 



. Drop off this form at: Walb 115, Walb Union Info. Desk, m 
* Kettler Hall Info. Desk, or Kettler 142 



Page 8 The Communicator 



Features 



April 21, 2004 





Rel 


ay 




Conti 


iuc froi 


n Page 


One 


evenl duo to low I 






"II 


was a In 


of fun 


' said 


Parker "A lot of t 


e learns 


stayed 


the entir 


c time. Some peopl 




outside 




,lly to 


walk 


around 


campus 


ind enjoy the 


weather 








Thr 


mgh jhen 


any ever 


'heme 



that one of the bicker draws was 
the band Crossroads, who played 
from ID p.m. on Friday night until 
midnighl. The band also stayed 
two more huurs during the 
karaoke contest. 

"We had an awesome band. 
They had a very wide selection of 
music," said Parker. "The enterlain- 
menl was well-received." 

Another of the more popular 
events for the participants, accord- 
ing to Parker, was the "frozen T- 
shirt contest" in which parlici- 
pants look a T-shirt that had been 
knotted, dipped in water and 
frozen for 6-8 hours and had to 
undue the knot and put the shirt 
on. Another favorite activity was 
"Jimmy Buffel Jeopardy," 

Other than assigned partici- 
pants, Parker said few other peo- 
ple stopped in on Ihe event, most- 
ly just to see 1 what was happening 
in the middle of the night. 

Overall, the Relay for Life and 
American Cancer Society were 
happy wilh the turnout and funds 
raised and consider it in the devel- 
opment stages to hei onu- bigger as 
the campus expands. 

"Next year, people will really 
lake hold of it," said Parker "And 
hopefully il Will just continue to 




Above, Circle K member Amanda Snow speaks to NBC 33 
about her organization's involvement with Relay For Life. 
Below, luminaries were lit inside using lighting. The 
luminaries inside Gates Center were spelled out to read 
the word "Hope." 



Omnibus Lecture 

Continue from Page One 

noted, and reading selections from her work. 

In between her readings Oates commented on the "sense of kinship 
(she has) with young writers," and the "common struggle in writing," 
she said. She suggested thai young writers use a pseudonym to encour- 
age more daring expression. 

"It's really surprising what you can do with a pseudonym," said 

Oafes said she still uses a typewriter to write her work and employs 
times of busywork to plot out her future works: "When I'm running, I 
think of cinematic scenes," said Oates, "I consider that my work time." 

She also commented on the differences she has experienced between 
the East Coast and the Midwest. In addition, she related the "elements of 
nostalgia" that she encounters when reassessing her past writing. 

"Sometimes you're so touched by the lust humanity of Ihe person you 
used to be," said Oates. 

The speaker also commented on the controversial nature of the topics 
of her many of her works. 

"If you have anything to say ... it probably (is) going to offend some 
people," said Oates, whose topics of writing often include the aggression 
and violence of American culture. 

The selected works read by the speaker included two poems, a longer 
short story entitled "Small Avalanches," and excerpts from her recent 
book "Faith of a Writer." 

After Oates finished Iter selected readings she asked for questions 
from the audience. As a preface to her opening statements the speaker 
said, "I'd love to have a sort of communal conversation." 

The speaker answered several questions, both over other works and 
her process as a writer. 

After questions the speaker held a book signing and generated the 
most interest from audience members in the book signing this lecture sea- 



^^tfr 



Photo by Brenda font 



Have a serious interest 

in journalism? 

The 2004-2005 staffing of 

The Communicator takes place 

soon. 

StopbyWalb215 

and get involved. 




IPFW 

Student 
Housing 



• Fully Furnished Ap, 

• Individual Housing 

• All Private Bedrooms Individually 
Keyed for Added 

• ( o mto ruble Living .md Dining Areas 

• Fully Equipped Kitchens 

• High-Speed Internet and Cabli 
Television 



260-481-4180 



nMnHHBHHB 



IPFW 



Campus w 
Calendar 



22 Student Goverment's "Annual Last 
Bash Barbeqoe," CM and NF area, 
1 1 a.m.-3 p.m.; students, faculty, and 
staff invited for free food, music, and 
more. For information, call 6586. 
Engineering, Technology, and 
Computer Science Scholarship 
Luncheon, WU Ballroom, 1 1 :45 a.m.; 
for information, call 6839. 

Concerts , NF Recital Hall (unless otherwise 
noted), 7:30 p.m.; for information, call 6714. 
22 Spring Choral Concert featuring the 
University Choral Ensembles, Cathedral 
of Ihe Immaculate Conception. 

25 Facult\ Artist Striej- Featuring various 
[PFW faculty. 

26 Community Orchestra, Student Concerto/ 
Aria Competition Winners. 

28 Percussion Ensemble. 



School of Business and Management 
Sciences alumni event, WU Ballroom, 
6 p.m.; for information, call 6807. 
Anthropology Department laboratory 
dedication in memory of former 
Professor Paul Jean Provost, KT G3 1 , 
2-4 p.m.; for information, call 6675. 
Opening reception for Visual 

Lin mi ication and Design Spring 

Senior B.F.A. Exhibition. VA Gallery, 
6-8 p.m.; for information, call 6709. 
Theatre: Once Upon a Main-ess, WT, 
8 p.m.; also April 24, 29, 30, and 
May 1; matinee, April 25 and May 2, 
i' ■ i - ■ irii&lt; rni, i(ii-ii. i: .11 o\V&gt; 



for April 22- 28, 2004 



24 Honors Program: Henry Ford Museum, 
Detroit, depart IPFW at 7 a.m.; return at 
9 p.m., $15 per person; for reservations, 
call 6924. 

Students for a Free Tibet: Tibet— End 
of Time movie. KT G38. 6 p.m.; for 
information, call 6761 ore-mail 
simon@ipfw.edu. 

25 Student Life: Spring Leadership 
Scavenger Hunt, campus, 1-5 p.m.; for 

n, call 6609. 



26 Seminar: Logistics in Today's Event- 
driven SupplyCliain, WU Ballroom, 
8 n.m.-noon; to register, call 6619. For 



S|i;ini',li Lilik Come c.il 
us! i Vntgim a converse/, 
m!), WU lounge, i 



in; for 



information, call 4660 o 
confortm@ipfw.edu. 
28 Anthropology Club Speaker: Michael 
Wartell, KT G46, noon; for information, 
call 6272. 

Chemistry Seminar: "Calculating 
Chemical Reaction Rales," Alan D. 
Isaacson, Miami University, SB 476, 
noon; for information, call 6289. 
Wednesdays at One! "What Students/ 
Faculty/Staff See on OASIS." KT G46, 
1-2 p.m.; for information, call 6129. 
Dinner Scries: Texas Roadliouse 
presents "Out on Ihe Range," Hilgers 
Farm, 6:30 p.m., $20 per person; for ihe 
all Rob 



dim 

Sedlmeyer, 260-637-8684. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



April 21, 2004 



Sports 



The Communicator Page 9 




A.J. who?! Fort Wayne's James Hardy 
deserved far more recognition 



Does any single high school 
head coach or journalist in Indiana 
deserve any credibility anymore? 

A.J. Ratliff is an outstanding 
player. Anybody could make the 
argument back and forth about 
whether or not he deserved Mr. 
Basketball. 

So big deal, Ratliff wins. 

And in second. ..James 
Ha...A.J. Graves? 

Who the hell is A.). Graves? 

Before I go any further, 1 can 
hear the complaints now. What 



does this have 


to do 


with 1PFW? 


Well, nothing. 






But it has i 


odowi 


h (his town. 


And being from here 






■ deal 




Indiana's 


Mr. 


Basketball 



honor- is as big as it gets for an 
individual in this state in any high 
school sport. 

And the stage was set for a 
close battle between North 
Central's Ratliff and Fort Wayne's 
own James Hardy. 

Two kids who have lead their 
respective teams for a few years. 
Two kids who have been friends 
and teammates before and will 
meet up again ,i&gt; teammates in the 
fall at Indiana University. 

Simply put, Ratliff and Hardy 
are the two best high school ath- 
letes in the state. 

But, somehow, they did not 
finish first and second in the Mr. 
Basketball voting. 

Hardy, the Elmhurst standout, 
put up flashy numbers all season, 
wrapping up with 27.9 points and 
4.7 rebounds a game. 



And while Mr. Basketball 
Ratliff didn't have those types of 
numbers, he played in a toughe 
lanapo" 

lov. 

With all due respect, Hardy 
pulled in 44 votes, but was edged 
out by Ratliff's 48 and Graves' 46. 
But still, that 44 was a slap in the 
face to arguably the best player 
thai Fort VVavne has ever seen. 

Hardy was even quoted in 
Sunday's Journal Gazette as asking 
"When did (Graves) even come 
into the picture?" 

Right you are, James. When 
indeed? It sure was not anytime 
before Saturday morning. It was on 
Saturday when the city and state 
were abuzz. Ratliff vs. Hardy, the 
final round. Who would win? 



The 






sarily a huge surprise. But that sec- 
ond place still baffles me. 

A.J. Graves is not that good. 

I mean, the kid is good, but 
not James Hardy good. Hardy has 
been, since the season began, con- 
sistently ranked between 55 and 65 
in the United States for high school 



basketball players. 

How is that possible when he 
is only considered the third best in 
Indiana? 

Is it Fort Wayne? Do people 
just seem to look over Hard] 
because he is not from 
Indianapolis? That is the over- 
whelming opinion Nol to mention 
that four of the last six Mr. 
Basketball's have come out of the 

It is somewhat insulting. 



Insulting not only to Hardy, his 
high school, his coach, his team, 
but to any person who has con- 
tributed to Fort Wayne' area high 




Ratliff • Graves • Hardy 

lap iufi warn )fe IMmm^ 



Rain claims final round for golf 



By IPFW News Servi( 



the Eagle Trace Golf Club in Morehead, Kentucky, 
claimed the final round as well. 

Round I scores determined the winner of the 

event, and Morehead Stale and Murray State both shot 
10-over par scores of 298 to tie for the Championship 
Jamie Frazier of Murray State led all golfers 
with a three-under par 69. Colin Christie of liutler was 
the only other golfer under par, firing a one-under par 



71. Morehead Slate's K\ le Litter and Casey Wade and 
John Billiter of Western Illinois tied for third with two- 
over par 74 totals. 

And, IPFWs Chad Wilson carded a 75 to fin- 
ish tied for sixth place. 

Following Morehead State and Murray State 
in the team standings were: Butler in third place at 311; 
Cleveland State and Western Illinois tied tor fourth at 
312; IUPUI in sixth at 313; Tennessee Tech and Detroit 
Mercy tied for seventh at 315; Longwood in ninth at 
122; Yi mngstown State and Loyola (111.) bed for 10th at 
12-1 and IPFW in 12th at 328. 



Lauren Simpson takes part 
earlier this season, 
records this season. Three meets a 
ing on the schedule. The next meet 
24 at the St. Joseph's Invitational. 



Track Records 
continued from Page 10 



attribute any particular custom to her success 
Despite only being a freshman, Ritchey has 
taken possession of five school records this 

Ritchey's individual records in the 10K 
(38:27), 3K (10:40) and indoor 5K (18:36) and 
team records as part of both the indoor and 
outdoor DMR teams ranks her among the 
high record holders on the team. 

accomplishment. It makes you 



leader in 
records, has broken six this season. Simpson 
holds records as part of both the indoor and 
outdoor DMR team and well as the outdoor 
5K (18:40), 1600 (5:19.91), 1500 (4:52) and bet- 
tered her steeple chase record by nearly two 
seconds at the Indy Relays with a time of 
11:17.29. 

Breaking school records is part of helping 
obtain goals that the team has. Despite their 
wide array of records, most team members are 
looking to improve, in hopes to make region- 

"My goals for the team are hopefully for 
the shot and discus records, loer -futhur 
records that we set earlier this year." 

The team has three remaining meets dur- 
The team has broken 16 ing the next three weekends. 

The team will be at the St. Joseph s 
Invitational in Renssela 
April Butler Twilight Meet &lt; 




■ meet 



1 May 9. 



April 24, the 

* md then will 

t the Billy Hayes Inv. in 





Scoreboard 








Greg 


Palme 


r Class 








Rain-shortened res 


ills 








April 


12 






PlaceName 


Rl 


R2 


R3 


Final 


6t 


Chad Wilson 


75 


Rai 


i Rai 


) 75 


51t 


Randy Smith 


84 


Rai 


i Rai 


l 84 


51t 


Jon Trappe 


85 


Rai 


i Rai 


l 85 


55t 


Matt Fry 


85 


Rai 


l Rai 


l 85 


611 


Patrick Florea 


86 


Rai 


l Rai 


86 



Mastodons shut out at 
Indy Championships 

By IPFW News Services 



A very lonj; and loujdi season comes In an ends at the NCAA ; 
Division I Independent &lt;, Ivnnpiunsliips. I he Mastodons were shutout (7- 
0) to Texas A&amp;M-Corpus t hrisli imApril In and was defeated by Texas- 
Pan American 6-1 on April 17. IPFW has concluded the 2003-04 season. 

Against Texas A&amp;M-Corpus Chnsii, the Mastodons were just 
overwhelmed. Putting up a good bailie was freshman I isa Bartelheim at 
Number Five Singles. 

IPFW tried to turn things around 

against UTPA yet were unsuccessful. The 

Tennis ' ont; P°' n * cami -' from senior Michelle 



Roundup 



Humphrey who blew past Natalie 
Gonzalez, 6-3, 6-1 at Number Four 

Singles. 

In action against TAMCC, the 
Mastodons were defeated 7-0. Results are as follows: 
Santos /Figueiredo (TAMU-CC) defeated Solari/Carie (IPFW) 8-2; 
Brahim/ Burton (TAMU-CC) defeated Vervynckt/Miller (IPFW) 8-1; 
Gist/Schmidt (TAMU-CC) defeated I lumphrev/Uartelhetm (IPFW) 
8-0. In singles, Carlotta Santos (TAMU-CC) defeated Francesca Solari 
(IPFW) 6-0, 6-0; Filipa Figueiredo (TAMU-CC) defeated Jill Carie 
(IPFW) 6-0, 6-1; Una Burton (TAMU-CC) dcfo.Ui-d Iti-th Miller (IPFW) 
6-3, 6-3; Amanda Brahim (TAMU-CC) defeated Lisa Bartelheim 
(IPFW) 6-1, 6-0; Lauren Schmidt (TAMU-Ct ) defeated Jennifer Pape 
(IPFW) 6-0, 6-1; Kelsey Cist (TAMU-CC) defeated Jackie Eakright 
(IPFW) 6-0, 6-1. 

UTPA defeated IPFW in six of seven matches. In doubles 
action Hedinger/Sloan (UTPA) defeated Carie/Solari (IPFW) 8-3; 
Miller/Vervynckt (IPFW) def. Breen/Chavez (UTPA) 8-1; 
Gonzalez/Pena (UTPA) def. Bartelheim/Humphrey (IPFW) 8-2. In 
singles, Vanessa Hedinger (UTPA) del Franceses Solari (IPFW) 6-2, 6- 
1; Elysia Sloan (UTPA) def. Jill Carie (IPFW) 6-0, 6-1; Ana Pena 
(UTPA) def. Beth Miller (IPFW) 6-3, 6-1; Michelle Humphrey (IPFW) 
def. Natalie Gonzalez (UTPA) 6-3, 6-0; Alana Breen (UTPA) def. Lisa 
Bartelheim (IPFW) 3-6, 6-2 (12-10); Jessica Chavez (UTPA) def. Jessica 
Vervynckt (IPFW) 6-0, 6-1. 



MIVA 
from page 10 



He said he was confident 
in the team's health and that both 
players will be ready to play on 
April 24. 

According to the 
Mastodon coach, the victor of the 
conference tournament is a toss- 
up. He said much of the tourna- 
ment depends on how one team is 
playing at a particular rime. 

"You can throw a blanket 
over (the) top five teams," Ball said. 
"It's going to be really hard to pre- 
dict, this is as balanced as it has 
been in a long time." 

If the Mastodons win three 



t, they will 
advance to the NCAA Final Four in 
Hawaii. A team from the MIVA, 
MPSF (west coast) and EIVA (east 
coast) will represent their respec- 
tive conference. The fourth spot 
will be for an at-large bid. Ball 
said nearly all of the at-large bids 
have been from the California uni- 

Game time between IPFW 
and Lewis is 7 p.m. at the Gates 
Center on campus. 

'We just hope that a bunch 
of people come out because I think 
it is going to be an exciting match," 
Ball said. "It's one of three steps 



"If s going to be really hard to pre 

Coach Arnie Ball 




Are you o writer, photographer, or artist? Interested in Journalism? 

Join Our Team! 



The Communicator needs a new staff for the Fall 2004 Term! 

We are looking for experienced news and sports writers, photographers, and graphic 

designers. If you have the skills and are interested in working for our award-winning 

collegiate publication, then we want you! You don't need to be an English or journalism 

major to join the staff, and paid positions on the editoral board are still available for 

next fall. Fill out an application today! 



For Information, Visit our Offices in Walb Union, Room 21 5 
Call us at (260) 48 1 -6584 



Page 10 The Communicator 



Sports 



April 21, 2004 



'Dons' bats come alive in second half of twin-bill 



BylPFW News Services 

IPFW dropped a double-header on 
April 17 losing 6-1 and 6-3. 

In the first game, the Penguins start- 
ed nil strong with a four-run first inning and 
followed it with a two-run second inning, 
hitting off 'Dons starling pitcher faSOD 
Horvath. - 



when Dustin 
Fremion start- 
ed off the 



sixth inning with ,i single then stole second 
on Youngstown State's pitcher |uslin 
Thomas. Caleb Smith grounded out to short- 
stop and Ryan Slcinb.ieh Hew out to left 



The Penguins also look . 


quick lead 


in the second game by having fou 
two innings. I'he Mastodons .in- 






and fourth innings. In the tilth 
Penguins scored two runs 






while the 


M.islmliiiv. only scored one. 




Fremion and Steinbach 


each went 


three for seven for the day. 





After suffering through the double 

he.n It -r sweep, the Mastodons exacted .s litll&lt; 
revenge with a sweep of their own on Apri 
18. 

In game one, IPFW used a four-run 
bottom of the seventh to pull out a 7-6 win. 

The Mastodons trailed 5-1 going intc 
the bottom of the 4th inning, but clawed 
back on the strength of solo shots from des- 
ignated hitler Brandon Armstrong am 



from 
Keen, 

The (PFW third baseman came 
through with a hard ground ball that 
Penguins' third baseman Charles Shult/ 
couldn't handle, sending home Steinbach 
with the winning 



In game two, IPFW used the long- 
h.ill, again, to open up a 7-4 lead in the 3rd 
It was Steinbach drilling a two-run homer, as 
part of the 'Dons 4-run inning. 

The Mastodons, now 17-23, tacked 
on a five-spol in lite Mil inning to coast to the 
13-5 final, 

David Zachary improved to 5-2 on 




IPFW first baseman Casey Rohan attempts to tag out a Youngsto 
player during one of IPFW's four games against the Penguins. 



Postseason voyage begins at home 




Mastodons to host defending 
champ Lewis in MIVA Quarters 



games were on the road, and 
according to Coach Amie Ball, 
the young Mastodon squad, 
which features only two sen- 
iors, sometimes couldn't get 
over the hump. 

"Certainly we didn't 
crumble, that's for sure," he 
said. "The schedule was a lit- 
tle more difficult than the first 



the Midwest half (of the s 



MIVA Conference 
Tournament 

First Round- 
Quarterfinals 
April 24 

(8) Quincy at (1) Ohio State 



(7) Findlay 
(6) Mercyhurst 
(5) Lewis 



at (2) Ball State 
at (3) Loyola 
at (4) IPFW 



IPFW's Matt Zbyszewski goes up for a spike over two Ball State defenders earlit 
Zbyszewski will be a critical part of IPFW's postseason run in the MIVA Tournament. 

Daiga to represent IPFW 

By IPFW News Services 



at Leadership Conference 



ntry, 1,175 student-athletes v 



1 eader-hip Conference, to be held .it Disney's Wide World 
of Sports Complex and Coronado Springs "Resort in Lake 
Buena Vista, Florida from 
May 30 through June 3. 
V o 1 1 6 v I) a 1 1 Daiga, a sophomore from 

R o u n d u D Columbus, Ohio, is one of 

*_ 324 student-athletes nation- 

-^^^-^^^^^— — — wide who will participate in 
the conference. 
The mission of the NCAA Leadership Conference 
is to develop a diverse group of student-athletes who will 
actively participate in, and experience, a multitude of chal- 
lenging and thought provoking activities that will enable 
them to become change agents on their campuses and in 



Across the 
nominated for this honor 

IPFW is part of the NCAA CHAMPS/Life Skills 
program. For more information on the program, log on to 
www.ncaa.org. 

In weekend action on April 17 and 18, IPFW spin 
the games with a 3-2 loss to Penn State and a 3-0 victory 
over Mercyhurst. 

The 'Dons won bv the scores of 30-28, 30-26, and 
32-30 over Mercyhurst. 

Matt Zbyszewski lead the Mastodons' attack with 
11 kills and eight digs. 

Freshman Cri&gt;tiano Monera had a double-digit 
kill night with ten of his own. 

All in all, a very solid defensive effort for IPFW 
with 20 total blocks. Scalar Sikca registered six assists, 
while setter Dennis Santiago had added five. 

DaveSchmidl led a spirited "senior night" offense 
for the Hurst with a match-high 16 kills. 



ment consists of the 
top eight seeds in 
the conference and 
is a single elimina- 
tion format. Seeds 
are determined by 
how each school fin- 
ished their regular 

record. IPFW is 12- 

4 and earned the No. 4 Ip FW made a trip to 
seed, while Ohio State, Ball California in early March, 
State and Loyola finished where the nation's premier 
ahead of the Mastodons. volleyball programs reside. 
The No. 1 seed Ohio ana " closely lost four of those 
State Buckeyes, 12-3 in the 13 matches in just eight days. 
MIVA, finished their regular "When you have a 
season winning six straight young team, like we do, some- 
games and eight of their last t&gt; mes they just don't know 
10, including a 3-2 victory quite how to get it over the 
over IPFW. Two-seed Ball top," Ball said. 
State won six of their last eight Bal1 also made n ote 
dating back to a 3-2 victory that injuries put a dent in the 
over IPFW on March 26. The final weeks of the season. 



No. 3 seed Loyola Ramblers 



Matt Zbyszewski 



have won 10 of their last 11, wh o lead the entire nation in 
one of the victories being over kills and points per game, 
IPFW in three sets. tweaked his knee while 

IPFW's opponent, Cristiano Moreira had emer- 
Lewis University, is 16-12 and gency surgery on his leg and 
11-5 in the MIVA. The missed two weeks. 
Mastodons won both games "Matty (Zbyszewski) 

this year over Lewis, 3-1 and obviously is our big gun. So 
when he goes down, we strug 

However, the 

Mastodons head into the con- 
ference tournament winning 
just five of their last 13 games 
dating back to March 5. 

Twelve of those 13 



gle," Ball admitted. 



Continue "MIVA" 
on page 9 



IPFW track records falling left and right courtesy of Ritchey, Simpson 



Throughout the season, with little atten- 
tion, the women's track and field team has 
been proving themselves within the ranks of 
IPFW athletics. 

From their first meet in l.inuary, and to 
the Indy Relays last Saturday, the \ 



"I feel good about it (the record break- 
ing), because we made a lot of progress," 
said Coach Mike Fruchev "We've broken 
most of the records in distance and half og 
the throws." 

The DMR team, consisting of sopho- 
Lauren and Kristen Simpson, fresh- 



man Ashley Ritchey and senior Brianne 
Gilford (senior Gina'Pruitt was part of the 
indoor team, Gilford only runs the DMR 
during the outdoor season) kept bettering 
their time now that they have a tougher time 



to aim for. The current records sit ,il 13:00 for 
indoor and I 2." lor outdoor. 

"(You're) always happy when you break 
a record," said Gilford. "It just sets a new 
record for yourself for the next meet." 

Kristen Simpson concurs with Gilford's 
statement. "(It) makes me proud even 
though we are a small Division 1 school. I 
feel really good that we broke it from last 
year, it means I am improving and so are my 



sometimes do attribute part of their personal 
and team progress to pre-meet rituals. Other 
than group drills and /or warm-ups, many of 
the team members enjoy alone time before 

"I can't have anyone talk to me before I 
throw," said junior Nicole Crone. "I have to 



