Fort Wayne 



Wednesday. April 27, 2005 



INSIDE: 



Xhe Commui#ator 



Opening Round Win 

Volleyball team rallies back to 
top Findlay in five games in 
MIVA first round. PAGE B1 



Smoker's Rights 

torial: benefits and detriments 
i potential smoking ban on 
ampus. PAGEA4 



Confluence Preview 

An advanced look at the 
upcoming issue of IPFW's 
literary magazine. PAGEA4 



Volume 35, Issue 29 



.viphvcommunk3tor.org 



1 2 Pages, 2 Sections, Free 



THIS WEEK ► 



I Professor profiles: Linda Fox. 



I Vance's Views: Dane Fife may 
dunk in basketball, but not in 
tank, page AS 

I Casey at the Bat 2 years at 



■ freshman Brock Ullrich becomes 
part of the history of IPFW 
Volleyball with. Page B2 

■ Women; tennis team wraps up 
2004-200S season with third 
place finish. Page B4 

■ In "Off the Field' this week, Nick 
sits down with women's softbatl, 
player Angela Pasquali. Page 64 



BsaEnia 



WOST 
director 
advances 
IPFW by 
leaps and 
bounds 



Spanish professor Linda Fox 

knew she 

wanted to 

be involved ^^^ 

with Ian- ^^^^P 

studied ^K 

three Ian- ■■ p^pW 

for ^^H^M 

seven years Bfl B^BM 

through- ■ M 

out high ■ HI 



three Ian 
guages for 

)ugh- 
high 
school but 
s forced 

choose 



e down on the good side of 
that. Not that French is a bad 
major, but in terms of utiliza- 
tion of Spanish in this country. 
I was fortunate in my choice." 
Originally intending to 
teach at the high school level, 



► FOX: Page A3 



psrii 



Purdue, IPFW discuss tuition increase 



Students predict extra work because of possible 4% increase; administrators cite lack of state funding 




four hours a week they figured 
they'd need to make up for the 
tuition Increase. 

Purdue Student Body 



luilional ll'lWislikeUlo Hi stxulnns vvimkl he willin,; I. 
■ease for dlc200G-20l)7 Iim ,il pay the extra tuition." 

Purdue University Prcsl- 



versity last Friday, Purdue's 
Hoard ol trustees discussed a 

possible 4 percent tuition in- education over the last 10 years, 

crease. Input was solicited from In 15194 Indiana paid for 60 

Purdue's North Central and percent of Purdue's operating 

Calumet campuses as well us costs, hut currently only j 

IPFW. However, only students for 40 percent, 

from Purdue University at West The previous two years 

Lafayette spoke; at IPFW, only have each seen a 4 percent tu- 

administratnrs ami local media itinn iru rease. IPFW decides on 

alimdi-il I lie forum. a tuition increase based upon a 

The forum was held to budget range dictated by Pur- 



i for the change in tuition 
and students complained thai 
higher tuition might cripple 
their ability to get an educa- 



Photo by Steve Kacala / skacala@ipfw 



WOlllll ll.HT 

Increase in * 
"I almost feel like I have der for an in 
sacrifice my education bi 
tae I c - - 



Wartell said that 
IPFW is one of the least funded j 
the slate, there 
be a significant ; 
e funding in o 



n null 



TUITION: From LEFT to RIGHT, Chancellor Michael Wartell, Vice-Chancellor of 
Financial Affairs Walt Branson, and Associate Vice-Chancellor of Institutional 

Research sits as Sarah Snyder, a student at Purdue West-Lafayette, speaks about student's statements .m'mu he- 
hardships of balancing finances while in school, in a teleconference between ing unable to work the extra 
three Purdue campuses Friday. 



Administration confirms 
possibility of smoking ban 



| Campus following in footsteps of similiar Purdue ban. Chancellor still urn 



By Stephen Pepple 



Chancellor Michael Wartell and the IPFW 

administration have not decided whether there 
will he a smoking ban next year. Die administra- 
tion has only indicated thai there have been nu- 

nirnni- kolnplainlsaboiil sci nml-hand Mnokeoli 



work the 

Questions about the Inline of IPFWs smok- 
ing policy have been spurred In the decision ol 
Purdue and other universities aenss the country 
to ban smoking on campus. 

The Purdue University Senate approved and 
pi aiii to implement .1 smoking ban beginning ne.U 
fell. The Purdue Student Government depreciated 

this decision because the government was unhap- 
py ivilli the plan lor implcme g tin: policy and 



|&amp; 5 

Photo Illustration by Scott M. Lawson 
at Purdue, hundreds ol people gathered on the 
Memorial Mall at (lie university to protest the 
ban. The protest was organized bv the University 
Conservative Action Network and according to the 
Purdue Component received more than /Oil peti- 
tions against this kiugpolii \ within the first 15 

minutes of the protest; over 100 signatures were 
compiled hv die organization. 

How the smoking km will work next seines- 



o the proposed smoking policy 



► SMOKING: Page A3 



Mastodons on display at 
Headwater's Park May 1 



By Stephen Pepple 

spepple@ipfwcommunicator.org 



As pan ot ll'l \\ s mth anmi.vr-.an celebra- 
tion, the fort VVauic will be hosting a "Mastodons 
on Parade" event this Sunday. May 1 at Headwa- 
ters Park from 3 to 5 p.m. Over 10(1 mastodons 
have been sponsored lot the event and will he oil 
disp|,i\ i Krone,! I. iii i i lie i m dm n ig the summer. 

"Sunday will he an opportunity to meet the 
whole herd before they go out to their positions 
for the summer," said Irene Walters. 

Walters, the IPFW Director of University Re- 
lations and Communications, who Hrsl thoughl 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



up the parade to celebrate II'IAV- anniversary 
about It months ago, said it will be Fort Wayne's 
lirst public art project. 

The original plan was to have 40 fiberglass 
s placed around Fort Wayne, like it has 



Olp.lll 



i Chicago and 



However, Wallets said that city fc 
and institutions were so eager to help with th 
project that over 100 donations were offered t 
sponsor 102 mastodons. 



tinned ■.'. i r 1 1 prncei'ds going ro the United Way. 

► PARADE: Page A3 

Newsroom: (260) 481 -6584 
Fax:(260)481-6045 
Advertising Oept.: (260) 481-6563 
E-mail: contacl@ipfwcommunlcator.org 



Student organizes 
book exchange 
to combat high 
bookstore prices 

By KSfl GlaSS probably become a recurring 



students have an inexpensive 

option to buying their books 

from the bookstore. A high stu- 

A typical text may cost dent turnout also means that 

$100, yet the bookstore may students will have a large selec- 

only offer you S20 to buy it back, tion from which to choose. 

By the time thi 

leases the se- 

lists, school 

is nearly back 






■- 1 &lt; 1 1 1 h - 1 1 r -. Ii.ii. 



ducted by 
the State of 
Califon 



If s kind of a grand 
experiment. If the 
demand and response 
is good, this will 
probably become a 
recurring event. 



the best 
vertising; ■ 
courage y&lt; 



— Ryan Brown, attend." 

organizer students 



Student Pub- 
lic Interest Research Group, the wish to sell or trade, &lt; 
average American college Stu- 
dent spends nearly $900 a year 



,,■1. , 



list of the books they will need. 

A contact sheet will be available 
The good news is for students to leave their con- 
that you don't have to be count- tact information regarding the 
ed among the average, if you books they need and the books 
attend this year's campus book they wish to sell or trade. For 
exchange. students who cannot attend ci- 

The IPFW Honors Student ther day, they can forward their 
Group is determined to allevi- book lists, prices and contact 
ate the burden of high textbook information to honrstul@ipfw. 
expenses by holding a campus edu where a webpage will soon 
book exchange where students be made available for students 
can set their own prices, but to exchange their books, 
student attendance is needed For the exchange to work 

for it to be a success. properly, attendees will need a 

copy of their class schedules. 

The book exchange will have 
president of the Honors Student copies of required books for 
Group at IPFW. "If the demand some classes, but the list will 
and response is good, 'his will ««_„- _ 

► BOOKS: PageA8 



HjS .■. ■ 



[23 



The Communicator 

UIHffifll;fflffl 



Andrew Welfle 

Edilorm Chief 

mrtllKO^Ivrtommiywalororg 

ICE. Casey 

Managing Editor 

Alden Bordner 

Advertising Manager 



Katie Pniltt 

Copy Editor 

kjNuittOiphwommunlcarot twg 

David Hunter 

News Editor 

ddunCerfftpfwwnmiriator wg 

Kelly Royal 

Photo Editor 

boyaltfipdwommuriicaioi.oig 

Anthony Maurer 

Sports Editor 



Kelly Lynch 

A&amp;E Editor 

VtjrKhGiplw(ommumcatO(Oiq 

Brlanna Belford 

Page Designer 

M' '' '! I'-'. "' ■''■'■ ""l 

Steve Pepple 

Chief Reporter 

Dorie Reynolds 

Publisher 



210) Coliseum Blvd. Easl 
fori Wayne. IN 46805 



Newsroom / Editor 

(260)481-6584 



Advertising 

(260)481-6583 



Publisher 

(260)481-6585 



Interests, personal reasons 
lead to professor's curriculum 

■ Focus on familes, own research drives Dixon to consider online learning as equal alternative 



college c 
•1 c 
a sEudcnt doesn't 



. tlisciplim 
opaya 



1 day. 1 



BBBffllZBl 



Teaching university students about 

Dixson's goal, bill it inevitably became her 
mission in life. Dixson, a professor in the 
communications department grew up on a 
farm in Iowa. While she was born in Texas, 
her falher's work forced her family to move 
around quite a bit when she was growing 
up. She received both her undergraduate 
degree and Masters degree in the state of 

While Dixson originally intended to 
major in journalism and had hopes of writ- 
ing for a magazine, at her father's urging 
she .iKogoi di'RrLT in leaching. 

"I wanted to write for magazines, but 
I was terrified of the city," Dixson said. "I 
started as a journalism major and my dad 
) get a teaching degree as a back- 



ward a teaching degree. While in a 
methods course, where she was 
to develop her first miniature less 
Dixson immediately enjoyed the v. 



i problem in my class here. I 
show them where the door is." Dixson said. 
She also said she enjoys the schedule of a 
college professor over that of a traditional 8 
a.m. to 4 p.m. high school job. 

When Dixson and her husband di- 
vorced, she again turned it into an oppor- 
tunity to further her education, returning 
to Iowa to study for her Ph.D. After teaching 
at University of Iowa during her Ph.D. pro- 
gram, Dixson made her way to Indiana. 



around 20. here it was about 27 years old. I 
teach family communication, and these are 
people with families... I get the whole range 



" Dixson said. After mar- 
ng a local Missouri man, Dixson laughl 
(h school there for three years, until she 
s laid off due to budget 



3 director for the de- 
partment. She is also involved in various 
research projects. 



the class was on-line that students would 
not get that social interaction that you need 
for a group to be cohesive," Dixson said. 
What she found was that a good percentage 
of the on-line interaction was, indeed, so- 
cial interaction. She also looked at whether 
the on-line courses offer the same quality 
of learning as the traditional on-campus 
courses. While that portion of her research 



"I think that is because when students 
get on-line that is what they are primariiyfo- 
cused on and they also have an opportunity 
to prepare," Dixson said. "When you c 



down to the class." There is also n 
to research and discuss class topics on-line 
as some discussions last two or three days, 
where a traditional class' discussion may 
end after an hour. Dixson's focus for her 
research is how to enhance the learning in 

"1 really believe that on-line teaching 
and on-line learning can be as in-depth 
and as rich in opportunity as the traditional 
classes, but we have to figure out how to 
make that happen," Dixson said. 

Outside of the university, Dixson takes 

joys spending t 



seemed like a horrible 
thing at the time, lit) turned out not to be," 
Dixson said. "I felt good when they wanted 
me back a year later." But Dixson chose not 
to return to teaching at the high school lev- 
el, because she was in the process of com- 
pleting her Master's program and looking 
forward to trying out teaching at the college 

Dixson said she enjoys the university 
atmosphere more than high school because 
she is not required to discipline students in 



and child communication. After 10 years 
of researching this subject, she has moved 
on to examining communicating in on-line 
courses, an area she has personal experi- 

Dixson routinely offers her family 
communication course on-line. She want- 
ed to ensure her students get the best ex- 
perience, so she began to look at how the 
discussion forums contribute to the goal of 
learning. 

"1 was originally worried dial because 



&lt;. related tasks. She e 
: with her children, es- 
3-year-old daughter has 
just moved out. Even though she no longer 
lives there, Dixson sees her many times a 
week for homework study dates. She said 
she hates to be bored, so she is the picture 
of multi-tasking. 

Even while watching her favorite foot- 
ball teams, the Dallas Cowboys, Oakland 
Raiders and Indianapolis Colts, play she is 
usually knitting or doing something else. 
She said she also enjoys building things, 
and plans to turn her garage into a work- 
shop in the future. 



MOTIVE" The Communicator will not print 
I il \J I I V- C ■ until May 1 8 for a final summer 
edition. Regular printing will begin again in August. 
HAPPY SUMMER! 



STAYING 

FOR SUMMER? 

AreYouSickofJ.O.B.'S? 

Potential Earnings of 

$2,000 - $4,000 

per month! 

Internship &amp; Scholarships 
Awarded 

Valuable Work Experience 

Excellent Income 

Awesome Atmosphere 

Increase People Skills 

Increase Resume Value 

Team Atmosphere 



INTERVIEWING NOW! 

(260) 969-6874 



Campus &amp; 
Calendar 



for April 28-May 4, 2005 



3p.1 

Theatre: Medeaby Euripides, WT, 
8 p.m.; also April 29, and 30 at 
8p.m.andMaylal2p.m.Tickets$10 
and under; IPFW students free with 
proper ID. For tickets or information, call 
16555. 

29 Campus-Wide Planning Conference: 
"The Next Big Thing," IPFW's 2006- 
20 1 1 strategic plan. NF 1 1 , 8 a.m.-l p.m. 

Mathematical Sciences Colloquium 
Series: For information, call 16188. 
• "Planar graphs without cycles of 
length from 4 to 7 are 3-colorable," Oleg 
V. Borodin, Sobotev Institute of 
Mathematics, Novosibirsk, Russia, and 
University of Illinois Urbana- 
Champaign; KT218, 1 1 a.m.-noon. 
•"VisibilityofComplete Bipartite 
Graphs," Weiting Cao. University of 
Illinois Urbana-Champaign;KT243, 
2-3 p.m. 



1 Helmke Library Hours 



Concert: Guitar Ensemble, Fort Wayne 
Museum of Art, 2:30 p.m. Free admission 
to concert and museum. For information, 
call 16714. 



Mastodons on Parade Community 

Party: Headwaters Park West, 3-5 p. 
Children s games, ent 
Vote for your favorite mastodon. For 
information, call 16808. 






SAB Event: Exam Break, KT ground 
floor, 1 1 a.m.-l p.m.; donuls, muffins, 
juices. For information, call 16590. 

Biology Thesis Seminar: Trina S. 
Harkenrider, presenter; SB 1 85, noon. 
For information, call 16305. 

Fating Disorder Support Group: 
WU 234, 6:30-8:30 p.m. For informatior 
call 16647. 



SAB Event: Exam Break, KT ground 
floor, 8-10 a.m.; donuts, muffins, juices. 
For information, call 16590. 

Stop Smoking Support and Information 
Table: KT lower level. lOa.m.-noon. For 
information, call 16647 orI5748. 

Concert: Fort Wayne Area Community 
Band, Embassy Theatre, 7:30 p.m. For 
information, call 16714. 



Spanish Table: jVenaconversary 
comer con nosoiros! (Come eat and talk 
with us), WU Cafeteria, noon; bring a 
sack lunch. For information, call 16689 or 
e-mail confortm@ipfw.edu. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 






of IPFWs -illth anniversary and rc-peei tor the institution and what 
it tan do for the community," she said. 

"It is a win-win for the i (immunity anil IPRV." she said. 

Local artists, totaling Ml), in number have volunteered over 
the past few months to design and decorate the mastodons. Each 
five-foot mastodon weighs I hn pnunds and will lie secured to a 600- 
pound base with .1 plaoue 11. minibus sponsor alter decoration. 

Walters said. The vulumeer artists haw worked hard and are 
the reason that this event will be successful. 

Maximillian Meyer, who is the curator of the Tort Wayne Mu- 
seum of Art's children and (atnilies program, and worked with the 
museum on UVMast-o-piece" design, said that people have really 
got into the project t In &gt; ihmighi it was cool that thev got a chance 



1111; a mastodon, which she created in honor ot Elvis Presely. 

All sponsors and artists will be recognized at the preview, 
and the community will vote for die top It) mastodons that day. The 



is unclear. This is partly the 

ise of tin- controversy. 

There is already a smoking 
mastodons chosen will be nuhe three Rivers Festival parade on July ban at IMrduc North Central 

I the campus has had troubles 



e food along with special activities 



Walters said that there v 

for children at the I leailwalers preview For example, a large ri 

3re than 500 people is being prepared 



participate in a public project, 
ated a"Bigga Hunka Love" mu-mdnn She said she enjoyed decorat 



it and artist in Inn Wayne, c 



After the mastodons 
disclosed locations, there v 

ers will need to locate as many of the mastodons 

they can. All persons who hod all the mastodons will be entered 
a drawing to win a trip to Disney World. The exact details for t 
event will be announced at the parade. 

The community will be ama/ed by the incredible talent a 
creativity on display, said Walters. There is a wide range of 111a 
odons representing a gamut of ideas." 



Fox returned from a year abroad in Madrid. Spain and knew she 
would be better suited teaching at the college level. She imme- 
"verier Master's Degree The high school 
: ox's "back up" in case she could get no 



certification servei 
other job. 

After moving to the Midwest to complete her Ph.D. with a 
fellowship at IU in blootnington, !o\ left her program two years 
later to move to Wisconsin and get married. She finished " 
Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin. When her husband was 
1 academic job in bis held of German history, 



bers when the campu 
"I have always ' 

think the community has 



ere a good university, but 

:r to really value the thing: 

offer," Fox said. "But there is nn uuestion in my mind tha 



there wasn't any research, or very little ol it, that really reflected 
women's experiences hack in the HlhOs. Once women began re- 
searching, women realized that most of the courses being taught 
at the university level were not telling the story of the Other 50 
percent of the population." 

Fox said the WOST program has deeply impacted the com- 
munity, by showing them that evervonc is responsible for social 
change' 

"I never would have been the person I am today if I would 
not have gotten involved in the women's movement. I am certain- 
ly a product of my experiences," Fox said. "1 am really proud ol all 
of my awards, especially my campus teaching awards. But I have 
also received many service awards ihal have been on the behalfof 
the either women or students. I hose are niv passions." 

Combining both her passions, I ox is currently comparing 
two Spanish women writers. The first is a Chicana, a second gen- 
"on Mexican American poet and writer. The other poet she is 



because I' NCs policy' 

defined," said Matt Martinez, a 
member of PNC's student gov- 

people are confused about the 
policy or have chosen not to fol- 

While few people will deny 
the deadly consequences of 
smoking, many object to ban- 
ning smoking in public places 
because smoking is a legal ac- 
tivity, and there are additional 
doubts about the actual causes 
of second-hand smoke In an 

Students at IPFW ate di- 
vided over the issue, and more 
than willing to talk about smok- 
ing on campus. 

"I understand why non- 
smokers dislike the smoke, but, 
speaking for myself, I always try 
to stay away from people when 



the International Agency for 



General and the National Pub- 
lic Health Service, second-hand 
smoke increases the risk of lung 
cancer between 20 and 30 per- 
cent for adults. 

The study additionally 
found that involuntary smoking 
is responsible for an approxi- 

heart disease and related respi- 
ratory problems. 

This study and related 
studies focused on people who 






n-smokers can work 
n their 



In addition to teaching upper level Spanish courses, Fox 
has also served as the clireclnr ol the women's studies program 

lerSpanish have shaped tliei 

Fox has also seen the development ol the women's studies 
program, going from a women's club started by women on cam- 
pus involved in the women's movement 10 a full program offering 
a minor, a certificate and a Hacealaurcate Degree. The university 
approved the offering ol aWOS'l minor in IMTti, with a full degree 
becoming available in ITlM'i'i;] school year. 

"We were the first campus ol either IU or Purdue offer the 
Baccalaureate Degree," Fox said, "blnomingiun did not get theirs 
until 1997 and Purdue just began offering theirs in 2002." 

The fact that ihe IPFW program is thriving, despite the ab- 
sence of any full-tune faculty, makes Fox proud. She said that the 
program is on the verge of graduating its jtith graduate with a 



Chilean 1 

political reasons. She hopes 10 determine that the women's ex- 

both Spanish speaking countries as well as America 



Mary Meehan, who will 
finish a degree In general stud- 
ies this year, disagrees, "As a for- 
mer smoker that has now quit, 1 
feel imposed upon by smokers, 
especially on campus," she said. 
"It seems like there is no where 



comfort," 
businessadministrationstudent. 
"If smoking on campus makes 
enough people uncomfortable, 

if should be prohibited." 

Grasner's comments mir- 
ror the university adtninisiia- 



commodates the wishes and 
comforts of all students. 

Grasner's opinion also may 
be a reflection of the national 



lorand memory are used by these two writers." She goes 

y that she has found that the hybrid nature of the women's 

o the hybrid nature of the gent 






She will be 1 raveling to Honduras in o&lt; tuber during her next 
sabbatical to present her research findings to about 100 interna- 
tional Spanish speaking women writers. 

With only two years until retirement. Fox looks forward to 
moving out West, where she will undoubtedly lie able to put her 
fluency in Spanish 10 good use. She said she would enjoy working 



Attention Students 



SUMMER WORK 

GREAT PAY! 

Flexible Schedules, Sales/Svc. 

All Ages 18+, Conditions Apply. 

Call Now! 

(2601471-8682 



SIP 



Just announced 
for college grads! 



2005 DODGE RAM 1500 



rjrj-3 rjrjfJGE iMagimuiVI 



PRICING! 




FACTORY INVOICE! 



PLUS 

$ 



4,000 10 



% 




CASH ALLOWANCE 

s 500 - s 4,000 depending on model 



APR PLUS 

FINANCING* I "ST 

on select models ' WARRANTY' 1 ! 



WHEN YOU BUY OR LEASE ANY NEW 
CHRYSLER, DODGE OR JEER VEHICLE. 



FOR MORE DETAILS VISIT: 

dc-collegegrad.com 



(^) OOOi 



D0DGE.COM 'l-eiXMADODGE 



en res-si 



CHRVSLEfl.COM • 1 -800-CHRYSLER 



Jeep 



Jeep is a registered trademark of DaimlerChrysler Corporation. 'Preferred Pricing program allows buyer lo purchase a '03, '04, '05 vehicle 1 

at Ihe maximum price of 1 v below dealer invoice, plus a l 75 administration fee. Must be a college senior enrolled in a four year program a: J 

getting your degree within six months. 'Financing for qualified buyers through Chrysler financial. Must take delivery from dealer stock, "See | 

your dealer for details and for a copy of this limited warranty. Transferable to second owner with a fee. A deductible applies. 



The Gommunjcator 



K.E.Caa*Manjorqt&lt;tW 



Podium 



Opinions • Editorials &lt; 




Kelly Lynch / klyncl; -ipiMC 



Staff Editorial 



Debate should precede a decision on smoking band 



Unless you do not need to breathe, it is an 
issue hard to ignore as you are exiting any build- 
ing at IPFW; what should be the smoking policy on 
campus? 

IPFW is thinking of instituting a ban similar 
to Purdue West Lafayette, which would have the 
smokers stand in a designated smoking huts locat- 
ed in the parking lots. This would keep the smell of 
smoke from entering the buildings, but it would be 
a major inconvenience to the smokers. 

There are several telling facts that help to 
frame the smoking policy debate. The Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that 
in 2002 there were 45.8 million adult smokers in the 



United States. Furthermore, smoking has been part 
of the national consciousness since the beginning 
of the country. 

The cigarette industry has had a long and tur- 
bulent history, from the early years, when cigarette 
smoking ads promoted with glamorous ads, to the 
current robust anti-smoking campaigns on the 
television, radio and the Internet. 

The dangers from smoking cannot be con- 
tested. According to the American Cancer Society, 
435,000 people die each year from tobacco-related 
causes. Furthermore, the society says that cigarette 
smoking is responsible for 30 percent of the total 
number of cancer deaths. For lung cancer, the total 



number of smoking-related deaths is 87 percent. 
Other diseases, including asthma, heart disease, 
emphysema, and stroke can be either created or 
exacerbated by smoking. 

But eating a pizza every day from Pizza Hut 
may cause heart disease, and no one is calling for 
a removal of fats from the campus. Does the dan- 
ger of smoking preclude smokers from the right to 
smoke on campus? 

In cases such as this, the debate over the 
smoking policy should hear both sides. The rights 
of the smokers should be considered as should the 
rights of the non-smokers. The road to finding a 
proper policy for IPFW may be a long one indeed. 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Reactions to smoking bah story 

Ban not enforceable; a ridiculous idea 



This has to be the most ridiculous pro- 
posal. J am not a smoker: however, I do have 
friends that smoke quite a bit. Now I read in 
the paper thai there is currendy a 20 fi-et dis- 



icy? I know a lot of people who "light up" after 
they leave their cars to go to class. Now tell me, 
if we get rid of all the ciganMte butt containers 
when they try to enforce the rule where will 
students put their butts diat they "light up" 
from dieir journey from their car? They will, 
of course, throw them on the ground. This will 
make the campus look a lot better, wouldn't 
you agree? 

Then I hear all of these people complain- 
ing about secondhand smoke. To those who 

We have a free air policy in the United 
States, I believe. They have already banned 
Smoking in buildings. After you ban the air 
where else can smokers go? 

I would like it if you don'tt discourage 
smokers; they pay a great deal in taxes each 
time thai they buy cigarettes. These are taxes 
that I would not like to have to make up if 



smoking gets banned from everywhere. 

1 really haven't seen the research on peo- 
ple dying of secondhand smoke from walking 
through a smoking area. If I am not mistaken, 
people get secondhand smoke and cancer 
when they live with a smoker or are exposed to 
smoke more than the 20 seconds each day that 
non-smokers have to experience while walking 
into the entrance doors. 

I hope, to those who complain, that 
you never are exposed to a bonfire parry or 
ever grill out on a nice day. This, believe it or 
not, is also smoke. So don't be hypocritical to 



it like ii 



thing that you or 1 would like t&lt; 



i the people who walk 



- Jeremy Bienz 



Current '20 feet' rule not posted clearly 



In response to the recent front page article 
of the April 20th edition of The Communicator, 
about the banning of smoking on campus, I 
"'""" vhich I feel need to be made 



n campus because people don't follow a regu- 
ition that first off they don't know about and 



ban of smoking within 20 feet of ihe buildings 
was enacted on this campus, 

When was this enacted and why was 
oobod] Informed of this? 1 personally am in 
loui different buildings on campus and never 
s.iw .in yd linj; po\k'd abnui Minting within 20 
feel. The only thing that I did see was the ash 
trays at the T portion of Ketder Hall moved 
and little white signs with red lettering posted 
on the ash trays. 

Secondly, why was this not attempted to 
be enforced? They are going to ban smoking 



beginning, andb 
and ban it immediately, they started a plan o 
l that included a lack of responsibility ti 
" eguladon known s " 
'ersons went to ba 
.i this but it didn't 



— James Pittman 



Smoking ban great idea; no more smoky exits 



something about it. 

I really like the idea of having designated 



Gaither Stephens 



Charity bracelets label wearers, 
a fad with a good cause 



The Waffle House 

By Andrew Welfle 
nmhacha@ipfwcommunicator.oro 



I went in the dunk tank last week durinj 
Spring Fling, and after enduring 30 minutes o 
r-pneumonia-causing cold water and repeat 



ed throws by c 
ment who shall rer 
was given a purple 



for 



Later on that day I was in line for the free 
food offered all week, donning my new bracelet. 

After receiving ribs that were indistinguish- 
able from a swatch of vulcanized rubber, a girl 
in front of me noticed it and asked, "Ooh, what 
charity are you wearing?" 

After Lance Armstrong's yellow "Livestrong" 
bracelets were seen on the wrists of athletes, 
coaches and celebrities, they became an instant 
fashion accessory. 

Now there are blue tsunami relief bands, 
green "save the earth" bands, red "give blood" 
bands and camouflage "support our troops" 
bands. 

It's amazing— you can instantly display the 
causes you support in an easy-to-read color- 
coded wrist tag. It's son of like the clips scientists 
put on bird wings to track migration patterns. 

What a handy dating device this is for the 
socially minded individual! I imagine they would 
aid in selecting a date pain li-ssK .mil uith a mini- 



and you are a double venti white chocolate cap 
of student govern- puccino — sorry," 

It is getting to the point where the cyn 
ics among us overlook the fact that they a ' 
charity. A coworker who is definitely in her 
stage wants one that says "Label Me." 

My mother's friend, who hops on Internet 
conspiracies and urban legends like they are 
hundred-dollar bills, commented on the wrist- 
bands by saying, "Children wear those to school, 
and it means they are willing to have sex." 

I rolled my eyes and said, "No, those are the 
littie plastic skinny bands that supposedly mean 



low. green and black. That's a brain c 
Darfur and the Oregon spotted owl. 

HIM: (backing off) Uh oh... Yoi 
breast cancer, and white violence ; 



that. Plus, I think that is a rumor. Rosie v 

If you knew my sister Rosie, you'd know she 
wouldn't have a clue. 

Some people aren't even trying to pretend 
the silicone bands are for charity anymore — they 
are out there blatantly trying to make money. I 
saw a display in a store the other day with wrist- 
bands reading "Support a Cause." 

Meanwhile, sure, I'll jump on the wagon. 
I'm still wearing my purple "Hope" band, and I 
just ordered a blue one on eBay that says "Don't 
Panic!" the mantra from "The Hitchhiker's Guide 
to the Galaxy" to wear to the movie opening on 

You know, I think I'm going to break into 
the industry myself. "Give Andy Money" wrist- 
bands in five colors are now available for only 
S10 at wivw.giveandymoney.com Be the envy of 
all your friends or get them for your friends — buy 
10 and save a dollar! 



Have something 



Make your voice heard. 




letters@ipfwcommunic3tor.org 



Walb Union, Ste. 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne. IN 46805 



Utters to the Editor should be no more th 
115 ol the Walb Student Union, or email tti 
you/ email addict* (optional) This Information U 

dais standing frf applicable) w 






Lessons learned after second year at university ! Representation' felt 

more acutely by 
minority candidates 



Casey at the Bat 

Katie Casey 

kecasey@Jpfwcommunicator.org 



By the time this article is published you will be knee-deep ir 
tests, papers and preparation for exams You have been pushed u 
your limit and unforgiving professors, parents or other loved one; 
show no sympathy. 

Naturally, it's finals time. 

I have witnessed the unraveling of the student body aftei 
spending the greater part of the last two weeks of my life ir 
the Walb computer lab. Between try- 
ing to write an entire portfolio (thus, 
an entire semester's worth of work) in 
about one week and listening to the five 
millionth person talk on his cell phone 
in the "quiet" (note the use of quotation 
marks) computer labs. I began to ques- 
tion my sanity. 

This Sunday things finally came to 
a breaking point. I had begun 



I have witnessed the unraveling of 

the student body after spending 

the greater part of the last two 

weeks of my life in the Walb 

computer lab. 



vanished around 7:30 p.m., and I decid- 
ed I needed a break. 1 looked out the window and noticed that the driving 
sun was setting, and so I decided to talk a walk outside. there w 
Walking past the student technology assistant asleep at the before t! 



a sleep on the floor in the who v 



desk, I wondered if it would be 

Communicator office rather than drive the half hour back 

For being 

Tgroupsofstudentswereworriedly campus these first 

s, 1 looked out the window and saw and even fool the s 

■v and the parkin;.: K-naj.;*.- lonl-in;.; ,i iln-m 
ilors of the sunset. I walked outside "This is iust al 

wasn't a cell phone — or a portfolio, campus, 



from the Wizards stadium. I never realized how quickly the sun 
sets, but you really i..m just Maud tin.- re and watch it. 

1 looked to my left ami niv right ,u tl»; thoroughfare between 
Walb and the library. The cement is plain, worn and cracked in 
many places, and the trees are still quite young. 

But then I saw something i-Ke I U.ukrtl up and down the 
thoroughfare, and suddenly ii wasn't freezing cold and nearly 

dusk. U was summer, and I saw myself 

walking to Spanish class. I looked the 
other way and it was late winter. 1 was 
running to Walb alter 1 realized I hail led 
my homework in the Communicator 
office. In another memory, I was skip- 
ping back to Walb after acing a test, 

A hundred other memories passed 
through my mind as 1 looked at the 
homely surroundings. 

I turned around again and I saw 

the dorms — I mean, the student hous- 
ing—in the distance. I remembered 
work everyday as they were being built, amazed that 
Id be students who would never know the campus 
housing was built. 1 thought about all of the students 
I come after me, who would stand right were I was and 



In the hallway, where otht 
discussing their upcoming test 
the sky pink, orange and yellow 
lesser shade of ugly with the cc 
and took a deep breath. There 
for that matter— in sight. 

The campus 

snow that we had received the day before, the rain and the 

had made the campus more brown than green, and there was a 
harsh wind whipping across campus. 

I walked around the area in front of Walb aimlessly for a 
, looking at the trees, thinking about how silly the 



student, 1 have practically lived on 
ars. 1 have managed to pass my classes 
newspaper into thinking I can write for 






s empty and freezing cold from the April 



a Sunday night under a cloudy 

fc myself 



Mastodon looked, wondering if the library is going to put a hold 
my grades because I haven't turned in any of the books I checked 

out a month ago. look I 

I finally came to stop next to the Classroom Medical building, the s? 

facing west and watching the sun slide out of the sky. As the sky gone a lot farther than you think, 
grew less light and the trees blacker, I could make out the lights Congratulations to the grad 



I had finally arrived, late 
sky. Somehow it was fining. 

I started to trudge back to the student un 
back in the computer lab for the rest of eternity. 

the wind didn't feel so cold anymore. 
running for classes and going to the 
campus and remember how many 



This week, between 
library, stand somewhere 

times you have passed the same way before. Even though it may 

look like the same old campus with the same drab buildings and 

chances are that if you think about it, you've 



s of 2005. 



Basketball skills mean nothing at dunk tank 



Vance's Views 

By Dan Vance 
dvance@ipfwcomn 






Like a pair of my coworkers, I was 
afforded the opportunity last Wednesday 
to appear in a dunk tank as part of SAB's 
Spring Fling week.' 

Fortunately for myself and our sports 
editor Anthony Maurer, few of the athletes 
knew that either of 
ment. If so, I believe th; 
found ourselves in that frigid water much 

Not to say that I didn't encounter my 
fair share of athletes along the way. But, 
let's just say that some Softball pitchers 
(yeah, you Kady Elliot) had to use measures 
other than their pitches to dunk me. 

Speaking of college pitchers, is it really 
fair that Adam Gibson, one of the baseball 
team's fireballers, got to stand within 15 
feet while throwing strikes at the target? I 



o take its shot, i 
of'lPFW athletics' new faces that made n 
dunk tank experience memorable. 

It was around halfway into my time 



the tank when head n 
Dane Fife made his v. 
knoll for his opportunity at yours truly. 

At that point I thought twice about But on throw number 30, 1 went down 

walking to Gates and trying to get Coach like Duke in the NCAA tournament. Call it 

Fife over to dunk Tony earlier in the day. retribution, il you will, but Coach Fife put 

After all, had I not mentioned a dunk lank mr dov.n in llie tro/en w.m-v-. ,,\ that dunk 

' him, he wouldn't have been there to get tank And it pit-tn well miked 

e nearly half an hour later. At leasi he had -.onie eonlnleut e \&gt;,u !■ 



as a highly recruited high school quarter- three 

back. I guess it 

and took up, as that should be indicative of what 



kind of coach he will I 



t basketball 



So Fife took a lc 
his first shot — O-for-l.Thenhe look 
er — O-for-2. Finally, he took 
0-for-3. But as the numbers go, victory 

I felt bad, really I did. On the other belonged to me. On that warm day, nus- 
hand, 1 was just glad to stay a little dry. But, tied firmly between Neff and Classroom 
in the true spirit of competition, Coach Fife Medical, mighty Dane was Mr. 4-of-53. 
didn't give up. He took another three shots, Maybe Fife will step into one of those 

or should I say another three misses. 

A good five minutes later, there \ 
still were face to face (so to speak). I w 



t least I got this colui 



For the Write Reason 

By Katie Pruitt 



was Ireleounted In 2004. politi- 
cal analysts the nation over 
turned iheii attention to 2008, 
and the possibility of a viable "Why don' 



do this?" 

When men go crazy and 

carefully-managed 

sniper sprees, news analysts 



female presidential candidate 

In the ensuing weeks, one 
obvious name— Sen. Hillary don't say, "Men i 

Clinton (D-New ble — what do you expect?" Or, 
depressed. You know 
l suffer from depres- 



YorkJ— wi 

a couple less In-your-face pos- 
sibilities in Secretary of State 



treated as Indl- 
duals, responsible only to 
perhaps their 



Condoleezza Rice and Rep. 

Niincy ivIom (I) California), 

Wliile the weather in Southeast themscives 

Asia, the elections in Iraq, Terr! mothers but 

Schiavo's ordeal and the death gender. 

of Pope John Paul 11 have con- It has been suggested In 

sumed the news so far in 2005, some of my women's studies 

the 2008 primaries remain just classes that Busklrk lost the 

three years away. election because women don't 

If the 200B election gives support each other, 
the U.S. its first woman presi- I believe that women want 

dent, the pressure surround- to support other women and 
ing (he already intense position that we want to see women In 
eoukl he crippling. power, but we're too conscious 

No one blames President of the pressure and the repre- 
'"" sentatlvc spotlight that would 
inevitably follow the obtaining 
ol any kind of power. 

Each little error In judg- 
ment she commits and each 
s performance is mistake she makes— large and 



inevitably 
in light 



small — and 
every time 



Men are treated as 

individuals, responsible 

only to themselves and 

perhaps their mothers but 

never to an entire gender. 



I voted was lort Wayne's 1999 makes 1 

mayoral race — the first contest not a type. 

between Graham Richard and As far as 2008 goes, I feel 

I inda Buskirk like Hillary Clinton could ban 



of the nmlon, 



Making friends abroad: more than it seems 

Subtitles 



o i asioutvotes, . stamped on the lii'.t ■ivumnn 

M\ r„s, „,„„,, was ,„ p,*iL,,p 
vote lor the woman, to support history, 
my gender and the idea that Am I a poor feminist 
women are as capable as men. because I would vote for Sen. 
But Richard more adequately John McCain over Clinton 
represented my political ideas, (never mind the party flip- 
such as they were at age 18. flopping that choice implies)? 

In the end I couldn't vote Feminism, like any other serl- 

based on a trait neither candi- ous ideology, carries with It a 

date had any control over, but responsibility to be open, 
more importantly I couldn't risk 
Buskirk running Fort Wayne as 
a representative of my gender. 

I didn't want the job I 
feared she would do to be asso- 
ciated with me in any way. 

By the time 2003 arrived, 

my personal political ideology from narrow-mindedness, 
had developed, and Buskirk's While women may not 

behavior during the course of be a minority as far as the 

the second campaign made me American population goes, they 

glad 1 hadn't voted for her the are a minority among elected 

first time. officials. 

Even though 1 was trying Therefore, each woman 

to think of Richard anil buskirk elected to office, whether she 

as individuals, I couldn't help accepts the role or not, is a rep- 

but be a little ashamed of the resentative, not just of her party 

way she was representing my and not just of her district, but 

gender. of her gender. 



it? 

red 


mining our position, how 
we know IF we need to alter 


Gender-based voting 
ects a slngle-mlndedness 

derived from feminism but 



"You're very handsome," he said and smiled. Most Karaoke machine. 
Korean friendships between men come off vaguely homoerotic "You have to sing," he said. "In Korea, when a younger 

despite the fact that most Koreans deny that homosexuality exists man meets an older man for the first time, he's supposed to sing 

in Korea. "My whole life, I just wished that someone would tell me for him." Again, it's Korea, 
that— that I'm very handsome." I told him that I'd try to sing later and put it off as long as 

"Alright, you're very handsome," I said. I'm pretty used to I could. I did eventually get roped into it a few hours later, but it 

this stuff by now, doesn't even faze me. took a lot of beer before I got to that point. This was after the point 

"Oh," he said and smiled big, "then I'm buying dinner that he told me that I was, in fact, "good at drinking. " 
tonight." He patted me on the shoulder and drove all the i ' 



the way to the restaurant with a smile c 
his face. 

"I'm not a gangster," he said out 
of no where. "Many people when the first 



1 le u 



Milk Milk was the name Of the aboul Buddhism and offered to take n 

"Do you know Jang?" he a 
for the second time that night. 



bar. Korean bars often have 
weird names like that. 



i the Korean Mafia. He's a short, " "" " = 

stocky Korean man with his short hair 
slicked and shining like patent leather. All he needed was a tattoo 
of a dragon, and he would have been set. 

But then again, he was one of my students' parents, and 






i word that doesn't 
English equivalent, but 
friendship without 



she always said that he taught English. He confirmed this for 

"I teach English, but my speaking isn't so good. I mostly 
work with kids on grammar." His speaking was fine. 

During the course of the evening, I heard him speak Korean, 
English, Japanese, and Chinese. He was doing okay for himself 
language wise. but I have oniy three real friends. One is a doctor, ana tv 

During dinner, he confessed. "1 was a gangster for a few gangsters. I think that real friends are what is important." 
years. Not too long, lust while I was in high school. But I quit He ordered another round of drinks and invited 

when I met my wife." This was the first of three explanations of girls to drink with us. "Have you ever been to Jeju Island?" he 
why he quit the Mafia. The other two were his mother and finding asked. I hadn* 



expecting anything from the other person. "Unselfish friendship" 
I guess would be a close translation. 

Since he had already explained this to me earlier in the eve- 
ning, I said yes, I knew. 

"I have a lot of jang," he said. "I have many friends. Many 
are very.. .what do you say in English?...they are very white collar. 
fudges, and lawyers, and doctors. 

But many of my friends are gangsters. I have many friends, 



Buddhism. 



"Are you good at drinking," he asked v 



e left t 



"I don't know. I guess so." 

"I hope you're good at drinking." 

Milk Milk was the name of the 

ird names like that. 

len we pulled into the bar, he 



e." He let r 
another island a few mi 
English teacher. 



; there. You should c 
; know that he had another cottage o 



s later. He was very well-off for 



the morning, he invited me back to his 
house and showed me his artwork collection, 
bars often He was quick to quote the prices quietly to me, as though it 

were a secret he was keeping from his wife in the other room— the 
hanging up from the first only other person that could possibly be able to hear. 



The hostess at the bar, which was very quiet for a Korean food, if you're lonely, if you need anything you call n 

r, seemed to recognize him when we walked in and immediately me, and I can get you anything." 
:orted us to a private room at the back of the bar. 1 left his house at about two thirty after a very expensivi 

The room had a huge conference table and, oddly, a evening. I had made a new friend. 



Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. 
The opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect the 
views of 1PFW, its employees or its student body. A 
column is solely the opinion of its author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses, Let- 
ters to the Editor must be signed, dated and accom- 
panied by a current address, telephone number and 
class standing/major or title (if applicable). Letters not 
meeting these requirements will not be considered for 
publication. All submissions made via email will be 
verified by telephone or in person. Addresses and tele- 
phone numbers will not be published. 

Submissions must be typed, and no more than 
700 words. The editorial board of The Communicator 
reserved the right to edit all submissions for length, 
grammar, style, and clarity. Letters deemed potentially 
libelous by the editorial board will not be published 
under any circumstances. 



PLEASE RECYCLE 
THIS NEWSPAPER! 



THEGmVUNIOUOK 






Arts 



assembling 

^arts 



i preview of IPFW's literary magazine 



The Spring 2005 issue of Conflu- 
ence, IPFW's Literary magazine, will 
be available for sale starting May 2 
in CM 145 for one dollar, with addi- 
tional copies for $3 each. 

The magazine, published yearly 
on campus, showcases the written 
word and captured images of its 
artistic students. 

Students whose submitted writ- 
ings will be published in the maga- 
zine will have the chance to read 
their short stories and poems. 

Editor Sarah Sandman explains, 
"this issue seems to concentrate on 
the human condition and how it 
responds to death/absence and rela- 
tionships—many of the pieces pres- 
ent characters who are being forced 
to look human fraility in the face." 

Sandman hopes that Conflu- 
ence continues to grow and gain 
recognition in the area, 




"This is the first year that we 
saught sponsors outside of the typi- 
cal academic departments. I would 
love to have local businesses and art 
venues sponsoring the magazine so 
as to allow the magazine to grow. " 



Why does it take so'-^ 
che w a damn carrot st.ck. 
The phone rang. 

Hel,0? u -..♦•&gt; 
Walter Schmidt? 

You have ten minutes to 

live. 

-Gaither Stephens _ 
"Ten Minxes to Live 
Unlike an early orange, 
lr k eatamarmd.ther,nd 

out from underneatn c 

-Sarah Jane Gaines 
"Marriage of Ufe and Death 



"rain than have that littl. rfi» y 

-Rosemary S. Imrick 

"Musings of a Distressed 
Camp Counselor" 



Student-produced 'anti-show' aims to draw attention to world events 



its development here on campus. As a stu 
dent, he (and any other student) is able fc 
udios and editing equipment fc 



It is the "anti-show," according to its 
producer, it reports on the Biblical im- 
plications of microchip implants, toxic 
chemicals produced from cloud seeding, 
the secrets behind 9/ 1 1 and the Illuminati. 
And it has a musical showcase. 

All of these elements make up the 



sent things you would not see" in regula 
broadcast television, said Hornberger. 

The program opens with the sound 
of a gong and a psychedelic, mirror-like 
depiction of Hornberger, long blond hair 
flying as he bobs his head and the image 
spins on screen. After such an experimen- 
tal opening credits, the 



talk show host would. 

From behind a desk covered with 
macrameand Indian blankets, Hornberger 
interviews guests from such places as the 
Catalpa Tree shop la metaphysical store), 
and mode rales discussion between his 
"cronies" whom he brought to the show, 
he explained. 

The show also has faux commer- 
cials from other students. One such com- 
mercial was for "|TT Cheese," a spoof 
poking fun a1 Jonathan Taylor Thomas. 



Cookie Monster eating 
fewer cookies to combat 
child obesity epidemic 



By liana Weinberg 



(U-WIHE) WASHINGTON 



keepingwiththenewtheme, "Grovercise" and lessons c 
eachepisodenowopenswith personal hygiene and ge 
a health tip. New characters, ting a good night's sleep. 



fewer cookies, and his Inter- 
net home page now features 
"healthy habits" 



"The preschool years 



icluring the familiar blue, 

HIV monster eating -- an 

)ple? Yes, "Sesame Street" 

l its 36th season last 

featuring a segment 



app 



obesity rates in America, new initiative and 

Cookie Monsiei has decided tioning to a healthier, more 

to lay off the cookies for a well-balanced diet. But don't 

bit. He's not going on a diet, worry, he's not giving up his 

per se, but he is advocating cookies altogether. 

a healthier eating style. His "We are not putting 

new song, replacing the fa- him on a diet, and we would 



and Clinton discussing the 






differ 



the trusted characters of 
'Sesame Street' with the re- 
spected voices of more than 



es that "a cookie is a some- 
times food." 

Rosemarie Truglio, the 
show's vice president of re- 
search and education, em- 
phasized the need to teach 
children about healthy eat- 
ing habits and physical ex- 



healthy hah 



i of embracini 

its for life 

» with children and 

adults alike," said Sesame 

' cookies that stray from Workshop President and 

J chocolate CEO Gary Knell in a recent 



Cookie's new eating 
n will include fruits and 
i, but also "health- 



YOUR AD HERE 



Contact Aiden Bordner 
at IPSN Advertising at: 
481-6584 



the Chamber ol ( Commerce." 

Hornberger pointed out that he wants 
to use such ironic elements in order to get 



More than a dozen 
taped public 

messages with "Ses- 



habits. Recent data reflect eluding nutrition, to fitness 
both the immediate and and personal hygiene. Par- 
long-term consequences sicipants include such high- 
of poor dietary behaviors," profile politicians as Hillary 
said a recent press release Rodham Clinton (D-NY). 
for its new health initiative from the Sesame Workshop Bill Frist (R-TN) and Christo- 
at i he beginning of each epi- Company. pher Dodd (D-CT). In fact, a 
sode. Cookie Monster is the recent episode featured Frist 
the rising child leading man behind this jumping up and down with 



aid. characterizing i 



the editing (breach episode lakes between 



in Keitlei Rumi! d-Jiv 



Make a 


Difference. 


Every semester, all editorial positions 


Positions Include: Copy Editor 


at The Communicator open. We are 


News Editor 


looking for well-spoken people who 


Photo Editor 


are good with words and images. 


Sports Editor 


have an excellent sense of ethics and 


Arts Editor 


judgement and possess the ability 


Page Designer 


to manage a staff and enforce 


Chief Reporter 


deadlines. 






Call 481-6584, or email contact©ipfwcommunieator. 


Previous news experience is not 


org for any questions. 


necessary, but preferred. 


Stop by Walb 215 to pick up an application today! 



BEST LOCATION. 
LOWEST RENT. 
PERIOD. 




1 Month 
FREE rent 



$25 monthly discount for 
GPA of 3.0 or higher! 



Village Green Apartments 



Call Now 492-9272 Leasing Today! 

Check us out online @ www.apartments.com/villagegreenftw 



STUDENTS: GET DISCOUNTED 
TICKETS WITH YOUR STUDENT ID! 




3 updated annually t 
add bits of new information or 
tocorreci minor typos, students 
should also ask instructors ifan 
older edition will work for the 
class or if the "extras" (i.e.CD- 
rtOMS, tab manuals, etc.) are 
required. Many times students 
pay for supplemental items and 

"We are conditioned as 
students to think we have lo 
make monetary transactions: 
everything doesn't have lo be 
measured against the dollar,' 1 
said Brown. "There are many 
creative possibilities such as 
exchanging books for notes and 
trading books." 

Thebottomlincisihatstu- 
dents set their own conditions 
at the campus book exchange. 
The campus book exchange 
will be held at the Grassy Knoll 
(between Neff and CM build- 
ings) on Thursday and Friday 
May 5 and 6 from 10 a 



call 40 1-6924. 

According lo a 2005 sur- 
vey conducted by the State 
of California's Student Public 
Interest Research Group, the 
average American college stu- 
dent spends nearly S!)00 a year 
on textbooks. The good news Is 
that you don't have to be count- 
ed among the average, If you 
attend this year's campus book 
exchange. 

The 1PFW Honors Student 
Group is determined to allevi- 
ate the burden of high textbook 
expenses by holding a campus 
book exchange where students 
can set their own prices, but 
student attendance is needed 
for it to be a success. 

"It's kind of a grand ex- 
periment," said Ryan Brown, 
president of the Honors Stu- 
dent Group at IPFW. "If the de- 
mand and response is good this 
will probably become a rccur- 



smdenls have an inexpensive 
option to buying their books 
from the bookstore. A high stu- 
dent turnout also means that 
students will have a large selec- 



your friends and classmates t&lt; 
attend." 

Students are encouraged 
to bring the books they wish 
to sell or trade, as well as a list 
of the books they will need. A 
contact sheet will be available 
for students to leave their con- 
tact information regarding the 
books they need and the books 
they wish to sell or trade. For 
students who cannot attend ei- 
ther day, they can forward their 
book lists, prices and contact 
information to honrstul@ipfw. 
edu where a webpa^e will soon 
be made available for students 
to exchange their books. 

For the exchange to work 
properly, attendees will need a 
copy of their class schedules. 
The book exchange will have 
copies of required books for 
some classes, but the list will 
not be exhaustive. 

To get die books needed 
for upcoming s 



■ updated annually i 



ROMS, lab manuals, etc.) are 
required. Many times students 
pay for supplemental items and 

"We are conditioned as 
students to think we have to 
make monetary transactions: 
everything doesn't have to be 
measured against the dollar," 
said Brown. "There are many 
creative possibilities such as 
exchanging books for notes and 
trading books. " 

The bottom line is that stu- 
dents set their own conditions 
at the campus book exchange. 
The campus book exchange 
will be held at the Grassy Knoll 
(between Neff and CM build- 
ings) on Thursday and Friday 
May 5 and 6 from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m. A rain date is scheduled for 
Saturday, May 3 from 1 1 a.m. to 
3 p.m. For more information 
contact honrstul@ipfw.edu or 



The Communicator 
staff wishes you 
a happy summer 

break! 




Thi-Gwimi'nu.mur 



Sports 




Fife completes hirings 



The men's basketball coaching staff has been 

completed with the edition of leu nai tie Kimbrough as 
an assistant coach. F-asi season. Kimbrough served as 
an assistant at the University of Massachusetts, it was 
his first with the Minutemen. 

"Jermaine brings energy, intelligence and integ- 
rity to the program I ie played at the top level s 

Fife. 

Before embarking on his coaching career. 
Kimbrough played at Virginia lech starting in the 
1998-1999 season. The guard averaged 3.1 points per 
game in his first year .u Virginia lech. He also played 
college basketball at Saint Catherine Junior College 
and Neosho Community College. 

Kimbrough was recommended to Fife by Donnle 



mbrough applied for a 
Fife learned more about him during coaching meet- 
ings during the weekend ul the Final Four in St. Louis, 
Missouri. 

Prior to joining the staff of former 
coach Steve Lapp. is. kin through spent 



, lime 



-. Fife 



According to Fife, the Indiana headman said 
Kimbrough "would be a great Ik and a great addition 
because he is a good guy." 



In his first season at 1 toward, the I lawks record- 
ed a 23-game win streak, including winning their 
conference. Dunne, his time with various programs, 
Kimbrough served as a recruiter, academic liaison, 
scouting, tape exchange and team travel among oth- 

"I think a little bit of everything." said associate 
head coach left' lungate ot what prompted brining 
Kimbrough into the program "Having played at the 



IPFW inks first Fife recruit 

lakari Johnson of Ottawa Hills High School in 
Grand Rapids, Michigan lias signed a letter of intent 
to play for coach Dane Fife and the Mastodons during 
the 2ti0;j-2006 season. 

Johnson, a 6-foot-3 shooting guard, is the first 
recruit signed by Fife since being named head coach. 
During his senior season. Johnson averaged 22 points. 



* « s* 


AT 



4/27-5/3 



Wed. 27 ■ Western Michigan 
O Wizards Stadium, 

S:00PM(OH) 
Sat. 30 ■ ■ ' Bowling Green. 

IflOPMIDH) 
Sun.1 ■ ©BowJIng Green. 

12tt)PM{DH) 

EEXEE^M*- 



COACH: New coach Jermaine Kimbrough 
(right) talks with Assistant Coach Joel Cot- 
ton last Saturday at the volleyball match. 

six assists, four steals and three rebounds for the 
Bengals. 

"lakari is a guy that I didn't need to see niticli in 
order to figure oui if he mold pi, iv What intrigued me 
most is that he has a great steal and great instincts for 

► STAFF: Page 82 




Wed. 27 ■ O Michigan Statu, 
3:00 PM |DH) 
Thur 28 ■ Toledo, 



Sometimes 
it takes five 

Tiger's Pen 

By Anthony Maurer 

tmaurer@ipfwcommunicator.or9 



The IPFW men's volleyball 
team faced off against Findlay 
Saturday night, it was a game 



for Mastodon fans 
and foes alike. 

Arnie's army has endured 
one of their rougher seasons to 
date, going 11-16 in the regu- 
lar season, and losing an emo- 
tional roUercoasteragainslQhto 
State in five games. I'nfifcriost 
positive head coach Arme Ball 
has popped a few aspirins this 
season, because it has Ijeen 
nothing short of a headache for 
the 4th all time highest winning 
coach in NCAA men's volley- 
ball. 

The Mastodons have been 
up and down all year. They 
opened up with a win against 
Juniata, but lost their next three 
matches, including a conference 
loss to Lewis in five games. 

Then, they picked up three 
straight MIVA victories, includ- 
ing two straight 3-1 matches 
against Findlay. The Mastodons 
split their 



Loyola-Chicago and a three 
game sweep of Me rcy hurst. 

The next seven matches 
IPFW go 3-4 heading 



to California 

Mastodons, who lost all four 

of their matches in the invita- 

Perhaps such a midseason 
12) wouldn't be a 
, but considerinf 
i started off last 
son at 10-2, there was much 
to worry about. Last year, the 
Mastodons finished the season 
14-lland 12-4 in MIVA play. 

It didn't appear that Coach 
Ball was unaware of the strug- 
gles his team was going through. 
There were various lineup 
changes, including switches at 
the setter and libero position. 



I up after t 






► TIGER'S PEN: Page 83 



IPFW survives and advances 




IPFW bounced back after a heartbreaker against Ohio State 
to knock Findlay out of the MIVA Tournament in five games 



In game three, junior Mikeluig.irni 
the lineup at setter lor Mike H.mdnlph am 
Mastodons jumped out to an early 3-0 
But, the Oilers came chargitifi hack and e 
tually took a Five point advantage .11 22-1 



Jones / bjonesijSipfwcomiminicator .org 



HAMMER: Team captain Matt ZbyszewsM, shown 
against Northridge, recorded 26 kills Saturday night. 



The MIVA Tournament started this past 
weekend with IF! VV knot king Findlay out of 
the bracket, 3-2. 

The Mastodons got off to strong start, 
stumbled in lite middle and rallied hack at 
the end of the match. IPFW picked up the 
win in five games, 30-21, 24-30, 22-30, 30-22 

"I am just glad to have won," said coach 

Amie Hall "It gives u a chain e to mi and play 
again. I am real pleased with what we did 
when we were down 2 to I." 

Senior Matt Zbyszewski led the volley- 
ball men early in (lie first game with five of 
his match hijiti 26 kills. I he Mastodons got off 
loan early 10-2 lead The Oilers ^ol within si\ 
points at 24-111 before IPFW pulled away for 
good in the first game. 

In game two, the teams battled back in 
forth in the early going. Up 12-10, Findlay 
started to pull away going on a 4-2 run to put 
some room between them and Hall's squad. 

IPFW stayed in contention in the later 
part of the game, but a kill front Findlay hit- 
ter lim D/ic/.kowski off a Chris Keen set put 
the Oilers hack up 26-20 and sent them into a 
game two victory. 

Dziczkowski picked up 10 kills on the 
night, the third highest total on the team. 
Corey 01 i 



£ 



Itall took a timeout in 
an attempt to stop the 
run of Findlay. I he 
Mastodons managed a 
few more points, hut a 
Zhys/ewski attack error 
allowed the Oilers to 
pick up the 22-30 win. 

Between games 
three and four, junior 

in entered the contest, replacing 

i at the libero position. 
Randolph's thur 



Another close game came around in 
the fourth with Findlay pulling ahead by as 
many as four points at 8-4. But once again, 
the Mastodons rallied hack, pulling ahead for 
good with the match, 9-8, on a kill by fresh- 
man li.ock Ullrich. 

The first play of die game was disputed 
by both sides, leading to a yellow card sanc- 
tion being given to junior Serdar Sikca. The 
penalty gave Findlay an early 1-0 lead. 

Sikca, a starting middle hitter, picked up 



► MIVA: Page 82 



Mastodons prepare to face Loyola 



With IPFW's win last Friday over Findlay, the 
Mastodons will now advance to die sem- finals of the 
MIVA tournament. 

The Oilers were seeded tilth in die tournament, 
where as 1 PIVV is seeded first. Now, coach Arnie Ball's 
squad will face off with the No. 1 seeded Loyola- 
Chicago. 1 he Ramblers currently sit at 26-2, with only 



Ball's team pit ked up the win with a slightly dif- 
ferent lineup, including jerrod Quillen. Mike Daiga 
and Nick Belman came in mid-match as the setter 
and libero spots. Sophomore fosli Collins also came 
in off the bench at outside hitter. 

However, Ball is unsure of the lineup come 
Friday night. 

"All of that depends on practice. Jerrod Quillen 
Started Saturday because he had a really great week 
of practice. We just look .u practice and see what is 
the best combo come Friday," said Ball of his plan for 
the Ramblers. 

"It's got to be a nice luxury to have as a coach to 
be able to bring people in and get some good results 



to happen. Nick (Belman) did a great job and he's 
done a ureal job the last time he came in." said Daiga 
"As far as just a winning standpoint, which is all that 
matters, when you have a bench that you can go to 
anil get results, that's awesome." 

Last Friday night, Loyola soundly defeated 
Clarke 30-16, 30-22 and :)0-2:i. I he Hamblers were 
victorious in both meetings with IPFW this year, but 
each match went to five full games. 

Ohio Slate and Hall state will play in the other 
MIVA semi-final, with the winner lacing the winner 
of Loyola/IPFW on Saturday night, all on the campus 



► LOYOLA: Page 82 




Baseball fights through harsh weather 



v 



J 



* m 



The Falcons left two on in the first and scored no runs on 
one hit. Ryan Keena, who is tanked nationally for his hit by pitch 
average, led off the game gelling heaned, and advancing to second 



Photo by Chad Ryan / cryan@ipfwcc 



tor.org Keena steinbach v 

Fowler lined out to short for the second 

CLOSER: Sophomore Adam Gibson picked up the looking, striking out to retire the side. 

save in the win over Bowling Green last Tuesday. The Falcons jumped ahead with a 



the lead in the second. IPFW also chipped in two runs in the bot- 
tom of the inning, courtesy of a Keena single to left field. BGSU 
hit another round tripper in the third to tie up the score at three. 
IPFW's bats were silent in the bottom of the inning, and the score 
remained locked at three going into the fourth. 

IPFW kept the I alums quiet in the fourth, not even allowing 
a hit, and came up in the bottom of the inning to again he aided 
by two RBI courtesy oi Hyan Keena. Keena real lied on a fielder's 
choice, scoring Al wine and WaJton. 

BGSU scored two runs on three lots In the fifth inning and 
retired the side easily in the bottom of the inning, leaving the 
score tied up at five. The sixth inning was more productive for the 
Falcons, who scored another five runs on four hits and one error. 
The Mastodons failed to answer in the bottom of the inning, only 
reaching on an error at shortstop. 

Bowling Green extended its lead with two more runs in the 
seventh, but IPFW answered with four runs of their own. The top 

► BASEBALL: Page 83 



[Jjj-TT' 



^23 



Part of the new wave 

■ One of five freshmen on the 2005 squad. Brock Ullrich is helping IPFW volleyball expand its legacy 



plan fin Bn.t k IJIIru h Years later and almost 2UU 
miles away, Ullrich is umv .j freshman outside- 
fuller, consistently starling fur IITW's Mastodon 
volleyball (earn unclrr le-iiftuJ.iry toijeh Arnie 
Ball Ullrich was raised in suburban Wirilicld. 
Illinois— iusi ."{[) minutes outside of Chicago, 

"It was pretty much (ml run around, play 
kick the can, build forts— -just theiypkal hanging 
around the neighborhood as .1 kid," said I Jltrich 
Volleyball became an option fot the firs! 
time as a high si bun] freshman and was an idea 
hosted by Ullrich's mother. She iold him that it 
was worth a try due 10 bis growing height and 
lack of a spring sporl One uf I he most important 
points in Ullrich's volleyball 1 areer came in his 
iirsl ye.tt playing club volleyball In that season, 
Ullrich's team made il 10 the- (mid medal round 
of the national tournament in Phoenix, Arizona 
file (cam subsequently lost, hut the opportunity 
thrust Ullrich into the club volleyball elite. At .1 
tournament lor his club team during his senior 
season, Ullrit h was approached by iihyen Maley. 
former IPFW volleyball player and coach Ullrich 
said that he had never heard of IPFW before 
being approached by Staley. 

Months later, Ullrich signed with IPFW 
because be thought he had a belter opportu- 



nity to improve with volleyball than with foot- 
ball. UN rich plavcil font ball all lour years in high 
school. After gradual ion. be was offered a chance 
in play wide receiver at Division lis Quiju y, bul 
turned it down 10 attend IPFW. With thai deci- 
sion, Ullrich became part of the IPFW volleyball 
legacy. "When I Brat heard of it (this historyl, I 
leally didn't know mm h about it. But now, I know 
a hunch of players w ho played here before, some 
of the history, it's pretty ne.it to be a pari of it and 
how we have so many players across the globe 
and the fact that I was chosen to play here too 
means a lot." 

On Jan. T&gt;. Ullrich made his regular season 
debut in a f-2 victory over litniaia I he freshman 
started the match and recorded a single kill with 
a pair of service aces. Since then, Ullrich has 
played in all Jll matches, starting 21. "When 1 
lirsi came in here. I Figured I would maybe be a 
red-shirt, I never thought I won Id be able lo play 
just because 1 am a freshman and I didn't have 
as much experience," said Ullrich. "Now that 1 
have been playing, it's been great. I didn't expect 
anything, but now that 111,11 b gave me an oppor- 
tunity, I've been glad thai I have been able to get 
in there and try lo make a difference." 

"Unorthodox," said Ball in one word 
describing Ullrich "Because that is what he IS. 
Hul he gets the job done so we don't mess with 
him. He has progressed 10 the point that he 
needs to be in there all of the time because of 
how he handles the ball," However. Ullrich was 
not alone in joining the ranks of the Mastodon 
volleyball tradition Four other freshmen (Mike 



Since, each has been a contributor in his 
iwn way. While Morici.ai li hero, and Slew art start 
egularly— McNerncy and Rogers have added 



the whole initiation ilnng hiotigbi us logelber in 
knowing lb, it we are all in this together." Ullrit h 
says that he tries |&lt;&gt; look .K each day as a learn- 



Mastodon squad that is hopin 
mm opportunities. 

It is that passion lor learning thai will also 




hitter will try to put 
his secondary education major to the lest. "I 
really enjoyed the high school experience and 



Bui, before I Hlin h 1 an embark on his hit 11 re 
in the education world, be has three more years 
as an IPFW volleyball player More importantly, 
he hopes that be has three more weeks left as 
a freshman as IPFW continues in postseason 
play. Last Saturday, Ullrich recorded nine kills 



and 1(1 digs in an MIVA ( (inference Tournament 
quarterfinal win over Findl.iy. In bis First (areer 
n match, be tied the Fifth game at 14- 



"1 think (he biggest thing is closing mil 
matches. The biggest thing we learned I. isi week- 
end was closing mil a man ii We didn't close out 
I oyola (earlier (bis season) and we should have 
beat them. Same thing with Ohio State." 

On April Ik the Masiodous heal Ohio Slate 
in two Straight games before dropping the last 
three to lose the match. The Buckeyes were 
ranked 1 1th in the country at the time. 

Loyola senior outside hitter Scott Greene, 
the recently named MIVA Player of the Vear, aver- 
aged 112 kills per game. Greene had 56 kills and 
21 digs over two matches with the Mastodons 

this year. 

"Defense wins championships, that's 
always been said We've been working like crazy 
to improve our defense this year." said Daiga. 
I he junior combined with bis team has 2-1 block 
assisls and (luce -oto blocks ag.unsl Findlay. 

"If you have confidence and you are the 
underdog dials (rouble," concluded Daiga. "If I 
was I oyola. I wuiildni want lo play us right now 



,, three digs and two block 
assists. One of those block assists came on the 
match winning point. 

"As long as we win. il really doesn'l 111aiier.it 
all," said Daiga o! ihe rotating lineup "Winning 
an MIVA tournament or winning the national 
championship will he muih more exciting no 
matter where you.are." 

Not knowing if be will siarl or play against 
Loyola doesn't get lo llaiga much As a leader lor 
the team on and off the court, the junior plans to 
make (he hesi of any situation II Daiga starts, il 
will be only his second playoff siari ol his career 
lie also started in last year's loss to Lewis. 

"(I want to bring) unity and hopclully lead 
ership in whatever way I can. I just hope whoever 
is out there plays as hard as (hey can because 
these years go last," mentioned Daiga with a him 



Daiga appreciates opportunity 

Junior Mike Daiga is very' thankful for the 
opporiunity be has during this year's MIVA 
Tournament It is Daiga's third MIVA Tournament 

Daiga made his tournament debut 



Zbyszewski and Sikca honored 

Senior Malt /hys/ewski anil |unior Serdai 
Sikca were named to the All MIVA Iirsl learn last 
week. It was (he second straight year for both to 






■ kill. 






is and last year's quarterfinal loss tc 



for Daiga. 

"Winning a match like that is just a rush and 

that's why most people play. I am just thanklul 
thai t.od gave me ihe opportunity to be there." 

Arnie Hall, in his 25th season, also helped 
to a third Daiga a chance lo make an impact in 
the win. Ball suhsntnted Daiga into the match 
just before the third game for (he injured Mike 
Randolph. 



complete game shutout. Along ihe way, Connelly 
stnick out five and walked two. 

Jenna Beacby was die only IPFW player to 
register a multiple bit game I'asquali, Johnson 
and Green each bad a RBI in ihe victory. Megan 
Carroll had two hits for the Crusaders. 

On Monday, the third double header of 
the week took place as Indiana lech made the 



to give the Masiodous the victory in game one. 
Natalie Clark and ISeaelw each homered in the 
game. too. The Warriors out hit IPRV 11-10 



1 1 kills on the night along with a team high nine 
blocks. 

"I thought we were much better (keeping 
calm]. We (old Matty thai he had to get guys 
together. 1 thought we handled that adversity 
much better than we did the week before, said 



from a pair of kills by Zbyszewski and 

Findlay attack errors. 

"1 think after a while, they just kind of let go 
of the fourib game Which |iisi happens some- 
nmes. I think Serdardid a great job ol pulling the 
ball away. I sei bun all the time,' said Daiga. 

The Oilers pulled away in the early pan of 
game Five, taking an H-b lead before the teams 
switched sides of the court for the remainder 
of the fifth game. A Josh Stewart kill put the 
Mastodons back at 10- 1 1 post switch. 

A ball handling error by Daiga put the 
I indJaj lead at 14-12 and gave a match point 1 



during the regula: 

Sikca stepped up as a valuable asset for the 
Mastodons during the 211(5 campaign, leading 
the team in blocks yvith 147. In addition, the 
junior out of Turkey was ranked nationally most 

of the year in h ig percentage. Me finished the 

regular season ranked 2&lt;Kh in that category. He 
is also ranked liltb nationally in blocking, yvith a 
1.43 block/game average. 

Zbyszewski is also ranked nationally, lead 
by his number four ranking in kills per game. The 
senior is also ranked ninth in aces and fourib in 
points according to the NCAA and AVCA. 

"It goes back to practice, those guys who 
play more than others are only as good as the 



in the contest. Harmon picked up the win to 
improve to 8- 10 on the season. 

In game two, IPFW only needed 10 hits, 

including two each from Kan Boiler and Stone to 
put away Indiana lech again, I'y l-ambcrt hom- 
ered for the Mastodons. 

Connelly, who has struggled in pans of the 
season, improved her record to 6-15. She struck 
out five, walking none in the complete game 
shutout. 

The 4-2 week makes the Mastodons 14-31 
on the year, ihe team plays a double header a( 
Michigan Stale today, then wraps up ils season 
at home on April 28 with a double header against 



night, lo let IPFW pull back within one at 13-14. 
As a team, the Oilers suffered 26 service errors 
compared to the Mastodons nine. 

One play later, a Findlay shot was deflected 
off Daiga and three Mastodons collided mid- 
court, all attempting to set ihe ball. However, out 
ol the collision. Belinan managed to bump the 
ball to Ullrich, who lapped il over the net, deny- 
ing the match point for the Oilers. 

lble play. Guys were flying 



later, /bys/ewski served a shot at the Oilers with 
a chance lo win. D/.k/.kowski attempted a kill. 
but was blocked by the Daiga/Sikca tandem 
to end the game and allow the Mastodons to 
advance. 

Ball's team will play again Friday again the 
No. 1 seeded Loyola-Chicago, 



I be game. (In ihe defensive side ot ihe hall, he is a 
greai player He is going to be a very good college 
player," said Fife on Monday. 

Johnson also plays \AU basketball tor the 
' Rapids Sturm, where be played on the 17- 









n lasts 



hit a last second i-poinier ti 



coach leli Tungaie, who saw lohnson play while 
he was coaching at Oakland University' last sea- 
son. "When Dane asked me lo come on board, 
one of the first people I (old him about was Jakari 
lohnson." 

Mature to have surgery 

Freshman go, ml l.ison Malone will be hav- 
ing wrist surgery during the off-season. 

The surgery is tentatively scheduled for 
May 1 1 . just after the semester ends. 

Malone suffered through most of the season 
yvith a wrist injury, miss- 
ing several games along (he 



make him belter. I asked him 10 handle it he 
could be pushed 10 his limits, said Fife on his 
prerequisites lor lohnson when the two had the 
opportunity lo sit down. 

Johnson signed his letter of intent last 
Friday, April 22. 

MichiganPreps.com lists him as the No. 
li shooting guard in the stale of Michigan, 
while rivals.com noted thai lohnson is a "lough 
defender" among other things. 

"Jakari was someone we knew was avail- 
able. He was the best player in the state of 
Michigan siill available," said associate head 



* 



The broken bone that 

will be repaired in the sur- 
gery is the scaphoid bone, 
which is the largest bone in 



urgery is the 



l|\ same that Jason's older 

brother Byron Malone, ; 

J. MALONE sophomore, had last off 




Scan Kirk hit a single to left field, scoring 
Siemb.ii li .iml kirk advniuei! on .mother llirow- 
mg error. ] lory r.mneti to end fin- iiiiiirif; I he sev- 
enth iiiiiinpiva&gt;- mild with IPIW seonnj; the nn!\ 



it of Brent 

le top of the ninth. IttiSU s 

as held one short of tying 



Fremion led the effort for 1 
one run scored and one RBI. 

Kirk batted in the other two runs with his 
one hit from the d.'sign.ited hitter split. Caleb 
Smith and f-rie I ;imhuri were the only other pow- 
ers to net hits on the night. On the other hand. 
Cleveland Stale nuked up in hits with two home 
run-, to score their I Ion the night Cole Uebelhor 
(2-2) got the loss lor ll'l W. I le gave up eight runs 
on eight hits in 1.2 innings of work. 

After weather mrulitions pnstp.iiud games 
.igiiinsi lllmios ( In, ., K ,i mi l-riiirtv and Saturday, 
(hey finally go! in ,, donhleheader on Sunday. 

The first game was all lllinios-t hic;iuo 
thriuigh the lilih i ng, who S 



popped out n&lt; the first baseman 12 batters laid 
The flames heated up in their at bat in the 
extra inning. I hey stored four runs on four hits 
and one error I hat was not enough i.i burn the 
Mastodons, wlm won with ihelinal score of 12-7. 
Keegan I aycot k CM) got the win for IPFW. 

The second game was inin.li less productive 
from the plate, both teams had only seven hits 
and scored the same number of runs between 
them. Sean kirk and Tyler fowler each had two 
hits, Kirk scoring two runs and baiting in one 
with a home run. 

Eric Lambert (5-2) picked up the loss for 
&gt; innings, giving up Four 



IPFW. Lambert thrc 



on the scoreboard. . 
doubled to right eentertVld. iiyan Keena ground- 
ed out to short, advancing Walton to third. 
Fremion struck out swinging. Ryan Steinbacb 



allow for humps and bruises to lie healed up. A I 
the least, his players came back to playing /&gt;lll&gt; 
ball at the end ol the season, going t- 1 including 
a marathon victory over the I indiay Oilers this 
past weekend. 

Matt Zbyszewski and Mike Daiga both 
mentioned that the leant cohesion started com- 
ing together late in the season. Fortunately, 
they didn't let the heartbreak of the Ohio Slate 
game repeat itself in the first round of the M1VA 
Tournament. It was one oF those games you 
almost knew was going to be close. I1TVV has 
a better record in the MIVA (8-81, than I indiay, 
who registered a l. II) record in (he conference 



Buckeyes. Findlay I 
16-14. To the unav 
on paper seemed tc 



I struggled off and on this 
b overall after the loss to the 
id a better overall record of 
ire volleyball fan, the game 



cpiick 11-2(1 decision All seemed well and as if 
the Oilers would be sent packing in three of four 
games But they proved more resilient in the 
next two games. I hey won the next game 2\M), 
despite a laterally led by senior Matt /bys/ewksi. 
who came up with three points late to pull within 
6. IPFW pulled ahead in the third game after 
a Chris Keen error and two more points from 



season's win total of 20. 

They will he in action tonight in a dou- 
ble header at Memorial Stadium, home of the 
Fort Wayne Wizards. 1 hey are playing Western 
Michigan in a double-header thai kkks offal :".:()() 



Zbyszewski. Again, things seemed to he another 
repeat of earlier matches. 

Itwasanoihei disappointment, becoming a 
22- ill losing eltort It was g&lt;i lug or go home time 
for the home team. It could have been the season 
for ll'l W, wlm has experienced upsets and dis- 
appointments around almost even i Timer this 
year. Serdar Sikca received a yellow card after 
Findlay argued the first point for what seemed 
like an eternity It was one of many signs of frus- 
tration out ol the IPIW side ol (he contest. 

However, they reversed the score in the 
fourth, winning Ul 22 ami sending the match to 
the fifth game I he fifth game defined what peo- 
ple hoped to see out of the team, coming out of 
adversity and upset to win a hard-fought battle. 

Trailing by as many as 3 (G-9). and being a 
mere six points from elimination. IPFW fought 
knowing everything was on the line. 

They scored point fur point and brought the 
game to a 14-14 tie. The intensity in dates was 
unrivaled by any this season. 

Daiga set up Sikca for a kill that brought 
the fjlJU plus crowd to their feet, and the Oilers 
had to call a timeout. The duo blocked a Jim 
l)/n /kuwskiatu, V. to end the bailie and send the 



IPFW 

Playmakers 
List 2005 



Matt Zbyszews- 
ki and Serdar Sikca 
both were picked as 
first team select inns 
to the Division I 
MIVA all conference 

Both registered 
double digit kills in 
the MIVA tourna- 
ment victory over 

1 indiay. Zbyszewski 
also added eight 
digs ami Sikca had 
eiglit block assists in 
the contests. 

Sean Kirk 
slapped five hits, in- 
cluding 6 RBI and a 
home run last week. 
He has a. 418 avg. 



*f 



I 



I Han had 26 hills and eighl 
digs in the MIVA opener with 
Findlay He was also named 
A First Team. 



Scan Kirk 



&lt;f&gt;5on 

I l.lld'.IA 

St 9 

fill 



■an r--f|isl,'iei-| live hil&gt;. ,„ K | sn 
Jhn 12 .il-lnls last week (he 
■signaled hittci ,ilsu homered 



S. nl.u Sikd 



Serdar had one solo block and 
eighl block 
I Findlay. Sikca was one ol two 
| Mastodons named All MIVA 




li n 






more week 1 oyola is their nexl match, and defi- 
nitely the hardest opponent in the MIVA. 

You know what I say to that, if it takes five 
games to get back, so be it. 



GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 



We're hiring students, part-time NOW and RJU-TIIVIE during summer and breaks! 




Flexible Hours and GREAT PAY!! 



Route Delivery Positions Available 

We Offer 10-40+ Hours/Week! 

$6.50 to $12.00+ /Hour 

Great part-time hours are available and we ofler schedule flexibility. Work around your 

school schedule with morning/afternoon and weekend hours. 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARYI 

Train in one lacility during school, and work in another during summer break! 

Schedule an interview loday and bring a friendl 

CALL TODAY: 1 (800) 622-6566 



Or visit us at www.homecityice.com to fill out an online application! 




- Individual housing agr 
Fully furnished units 



Dining area with chairs 
High-speed internet and cable 



Social lounge with big : 



• 24-Hour laundry facilities 

■ Computer learning center/cybe 



1 Basketball sport court 

• On-site community assistant staff 

1 On-site management and 



IPFW Student Housing 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

41 1 Crescent Avenue • Fort Wayne, IN 4681 5 
■ www.IPFWstudenthousing.com 

Professionally managed by American Campus Communities 







en 



Tennis grabs third 
in championship 



By Nick West 

miefpfwcommunicatoi. 



bui dropped 6-4 and 6-4. 
Barielheim and Hager played a 
valiant game against Islanders 
Brahim and Stephanie Canales 



leam finished In third place at 
thelndcpendcnt Championship 
at Northern Colorado over the 
past weekend (Friday, April 22 
and Saturday, April 23). 






defeated Texas 

3. but lost to 

champion Northern 



Colorado, ; 
Texas A&amp;M Corpus ChrislL 7-0. 
"I think we played pretty 

mis i hrisii and 
Northern Colorado were head 
and shoulders above the other 
teams and they battled in the 



Coulson, Jill Carte 
Miller all won 
IPFW. Couls( 



Championship 1-2, Northern 
Colorado was 3-0, Texas A&amp;M 
Corpus Christ) was 2-1 and 
Texas Pan American was 1 -2. 

The IPFW men's tennis 
team fell in their final home 
game of the 



a Pine Ridge 
:t Wayne. 



Track championships ahead 



By Anthony Maurer 



"iin. Hitchey has established her- 



Carlos 

would have gave IPFW its only 
point of the day by defeating 



Miller upped Bronc Monica 
Lopez, 6-2 and 6-2. Mastodons 
Hanna Hager, Lisa Bartelhcim 
and Jennifer Pape all lost their 
singles games. Hager Inst her 
first match, battled back to win 
the second, but lost the third. 
Bartelhcim fell 6-2 and 6-1, and 
Pape lost 7-5 and 6-1. 



i ctei 



■ gels to four, 
i pull birr 



won their double set 
the Hmncs, 9-8(5). 

"Jill Carie really r 



Miller and Pape won 
IPFW's second doubles set. 8-4. 
Hager and Bartelhcim fell 8-4. 

TheMastodons were swept 



i Miller v 
4. Bartelhein 
i had a rough outing, get- 



&amp; get- 
ting swept in six games. Jackie 



I [ikrighi didn't have much s 
r, losing 6-0 and 6-1. 
IPFW had equal amount 
of down luck against Texas 
A&amp;M Corpus Christi, losing 7-0. 
Bartelhcim played better, but 
lost 6-3 and 6-4. Miller bat- 
tled against Amanda Brahim, 



Mastodons Landry Nzudie 
and Nabil Mourad lost their sin- 
gles matches, 6-1 and 6-1 and 
6-4 and 6-3. Ian Leonhardt fell 
7-5 and 6-2 to Alex Friesen and 
Sam Rocke dropped matches 6- 
2 and 6-2 to Adam Ford. Daniel 
Jackson lost 6-3 and 6-1 to 
Diego /egorra-Ballon. 



Because the 

moved to a different location, 
IPFW and Northern Illinois 
were only allotted a certain 



Buffalo in the quarterfinal 
round of the MAC Tournament 
on Thursday, April 28. The 
Mastodons lost what Burns 
called a heated match, 5-2. 

"1 think that's the best 
draw we could have gotten," 
he said. "We match up a little 
betier with them. 

■' competitive 



is lompeiingin the 1 

self at IPFW for breaking numerous indoor and outdoor records 

since joining the track and cross-country programs last year. 

Nicole Crone will be competing in the hammer throw. 
lunior runners Lauren and Kristen Simpson will join Crone in 
Sacramento. The sisters will he (.ompeting in the 3,000-meter 
steeplechase. 

There are five barriers, four regular 30-inch tall barriers, and 
one similar barrier that has a 12-foot water barrier following the 
obstacle. 1 he water harrier iwm an incline ili.il becomes shallower 
the farther it is from the barrier itself. 

There are a total of.tS jumps that must be made in order to 
complete the event I he jumps equate to the 4:1 ratio of the bar- 
riers (28-7). The ev. 
meters less than tv 
upon whether the v 



**m*4&amp; 


JS&amp;31 


■ ■ 

a ■• id £ ' 


a ti£ 


^B Wf~i a« 


W^H 


„^m 


%zm 






r pit is placed on the inside I; 



When the 
total of 7.5 laps 

the first obstacle When its on the imtside, there are a toi 
laps and 100 meters before the first jump. 

pit itself is not to be jumped, but leaped 



tcrs before 
otalnl 7.2 r i 



Will,, 



? foot. The obstacles are roughly three- lanes u 



have a 30-inch height I he mam difference in the w 

you want to land with only one foot hitting the water in order to 

retain good stride. 

What makes the race more dangerous than other events is 
that barriers themselves arc large wooden beams thai will not give 
like regular hurdles liming any hurdles on the track could lead to 
a hard encounter with the track it sell One would also have to step 
on the top of every barrier to bound successfully past it. Again, a 
misstep may prove to be dangerous, and could potentially land the 

Lauren Simpson is the c 

siecplet base with a time of 11: 

one second-place finish and a third place finish in the e 

Her sister Kristen currer 
the event.. She has recorded tw 
and two sixth plate finishes o 



o by Josh Farrell / IPFW Athletics 



JUMP: Twins Lauren (far) and Kristen (near) Simpson 
compete in the steeplechase earlier this season. 



o keep m\ n 



it all three years she 

Kristen Simpson also 
Her other 



itionally for the past four 
years. Runners ami throwers in i he top live rankings of each event 
are allowed to participate m the Independent Championships. All 
lour competitors achieve the top five rank necessary to compete 

Lauren Simpson has excelled in the steeplechase. "Basically. 
I am able to perform well because of my water jump," she said. 
"I jump a lot farther than other girls are able to and therefore 
only do I gel just one loot wet, but it allows 
turn, which is key in this event." 

She also competes in the 1500 and 81 
sionally runs the 5.000-meter in the seasot 

Kristen Simpson has run in the ev 
has been a Mastodon. She feels that the t 
difficult that she has had to compete in 
acknowledges the danger and difficulty i 









l lite f&gt;,tl 






Softball picks up success late in the season 



Another multi-game week came 
t for coach Keith Fisher's softball t&lt; 
. the squad going4-2. 




Laura Randolph, Miranda Ditton and Jenna 
Connelly each had a hit. 

Connelly was also on the ruound, giv- 
ing up 12 hits and five earned runs on the 
five inning game. Four separate Jaguar hit- 
ters had two hit games. Blair Branson and 
Stacy Speshyock each had two RBI in the 

In game two. IUPUI scored five runs 
before the Mastodons ever got onto the 
scoreboard. Randolph supplied three of the 
Mastodon- six hits, but it was Kacie Stone 
who provided the only IPFW run. 

Speshyock was big again at bat for 
IUPUI with a pair of RBI on three hits. 
Included in Speshyock's hits was a home- 
run, her third of the season and second of 



Another Mid-Continent Conference 
hosted IPFW on April 2 



both games. 3-1 and 3-0. 

The game went into the seventh tied 
at one when Ditton laced a single to right 
field scoring both Randolph and Angela 
Pasquali. Both Randolph and Pasquali 
reached base on singles to start the inning. 

Beth Harmon picked up the win, 
going.a full seven innings, giving up six hits 

in the second half of the double head- 
er with Valpo, Connelly pitched a four hit, 
► SUCCESS: Page B2 



"Actually, A.J. gave me the nickname 'Squalnuts 

It's best not to ask questions 



d that you 
u are very versatile. 
it of my time. But being a lawyer, I 



author, a lawyi 



1 NW: I did a Google search for "Angela Pasquali 

a blogger along with being a Softball player. Y 

AP: The author, you know, tends to consume a 

and giggles and to support my family, (giggles) 

NW: It's been cold the past few days. Your thoughts on playing in not-warm conditions. 
' fhan T 50 be h ° neSt ' "'* miSe,ab,e - ' W ° Uld rath6r piay in ^-degree weather than.aqything.wJcJe;. 

1 NW:Are you familiar with Jennie Finch? 



might be one of those times where after I wake up, I'd have to charge the mound. 
time in middle school I got hit in the head and my helmet shattered. 

"* good. The most painful was when I was playing in the state softball tournament, 
there and hit me in the butt! I was like what are you 



1 got hit in the butt. This girl just hurli 

doing?! (laughs) 

NW: Did you go after her? 

AP: No, I didn't go after her. I just kind of laughed as I jogged down to first 



NW: Word 

NW: Best hitler on the team? 
AP: Jenna .Beachy, 



Closest friend on the team? 



': Best nickname on the team? 
AP: Actually, A.J. (Ashley Johnson) g 
NW: Hottest on the team? 
AP: Laura Randolph. 
NW: Coach Fisher? 
AP: Animated. 



e the nickname "Squalnuts." It's best n 



NW:I 



AP: Hockey. I 



is golf. \ 



second favorite sport? 

; played street hockey since I've had a pair of rollerblades 
since i was s.x. My dad is from Detroit and he's a big Red Wings fan. That city thrives off of hockey. 

NW: Do you have a pre-game ritual? 

AP: I have a necklace that my dad ga 

imttlin l j i , 



I graduated, with a softball player o 



NW is th. ; re a certain song or songs you listen ti 

AP: Anything by AODC. Lately, it's actually been the Transplants. My boyfriend got n 
the Transplants. 

NW: No "Eye of the Tiger* from "Rocky"? 

AP: No, actually "Eye of the Tiger" kind of makes me want to hurt someone. 
NW: You are the only left-handed batter on the team. Your thoughts. 
L. AP: Lefties oV ,,'.:,.-, fi.-.ufjhs) 




