THE 



Communicator 



Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne 



VOLUME 35 



OFFICE LINE; 481-6584 



ADVERTISING; 481-6583 



mmmmwim 



msm 



m 



I 



Students create images of campus buildings for notecards 




By Mishanna Wood, 
News Editor 



1 IPRV 



Kathy Knoiu. j 
aJum and repress nuiive i 
Nole cards depiciing School of Viiual 
Kclllcr Hall, \V»lb Union, the p=,fo,mine Ans. sq«d 
Visual Ans Building. Williams 
Thealre, Gxa Sporu Ccniet. 
[he S&gt;:icncc Building, 

Engineering and Technology 

■■■■|E and Helmke Library of design andWmpulei an slu- 
jj^^ ^1^^ ^^ laughl by 



inifcc Bosk, i 






braughl 



liable 
Alumni omce. located in 
KelUcr Hall Room 142. They 
are ihrink-UTipped in packets 
of nincaiSS per picket. 

The eatds, made out of 



Anne Marie LeBlai 

piofcisor in the School or 

Visual and PcrTonnine Arts. 

Knotls said it look 
approximately one year to 
white linen, state the name of bring the project to completion, 
the building pictured on the Elmer Denman. campus pho- 
cover and also have Indiana lographer, look Ihe photos and 
Universily-Purdue Univcii.ty siudents scanned ihem in and 
at Fan Wayne printed on ihem. modilied them 




Incorporated. They were 

edatlPFWprinlinEservii 

Bosk said that Ihe A 



lunosfol Alumni Rglabons 



Association is thrilled about the 
projecl and she hopes other stu- 
dent groups will be encouraged 
to do piDJecIs with the Alumni 
Association in the future. 



Professor informs 
community 
about WWII life 
in Fort Wayne 



By Gloria de Faria, 
Chiel Reporter 

On Saturday. Ian. 20. Fon 

glimpse of Fon Wayne during World 
War II. as well :u a new perspective 
on the relalion^hip between local citi- 

"Suiuiday sessions al Borders 
haic been very successful. It has been 
great ro have a faculty member from 
[PFW come once a month and give a 
. presentation on their specialty. We 
have been successful in terms at Ihe 
diaw and in terns of, 1 believe, the 



:. Funhcn 



Manaf 



lichlcnmcyer 



jvofessor of hislory and cuneni histo- 
ry department Chair, Clillord Scotl. 
described events that helped shape the 
period. Scott has done extensive 
research on ethnic hislor&gt;' conDlct and 
assimilation and on Fon Wayne. 

According to Scotl. Ihe prison 
camps were buili around the Fon 
Wayne railroad foe only SSOO and 
allhough there were only approm- 
mately IJO guards for 600 prisoners. 
no major problems ciisted, eiccpl for 



Some of the Gcnn:ui InHips who 
were captured dunng the war were 
brought to the United Slates to serve 
as labor They were greeied by a hos- 
lile labor force in Fun Wayne. Used in 
luge numbers in unskill^ positions, 
the Ccnnan laboiers were paid about 
SI .05 per day. 25 cenl.s of which was 
used to help the prison system. 

The faci that the prisoners were 
paid lor Ihe work they perfnrTned did 
nol please ever&gt;body. Scon also ^aiiJ 



that Fon Wayne's was not a concen- 
tration camp in the European sense, 
and thai Ihe conditions in the concen- 
tration camps in Europe, where the 

Scoit said that (he camps in Fon 
Wayne treated Ihe prisoners Tairly 
well and that they were provided wiUi 
ihree meals per day. a bottle of beer 
and two packs ofeigarelles per week. 

The l^rmans often played soc- 
cer in their "spare time" and intro- 
duced Fort Wayne to the spon. When 
he was younger. Fon Wayne resideni 
Frank Fenker used to ride his bike la 
the war camp and walch Ihe prisoners 
play soccer through the fences. 

"Al Ihat lime, the Hilger's Farm 
Market was simply a farm with pota- 
toes and onions. When I was about IS 
years old. a couple of POWs were 
brought ID the farm as labor. My 
uncle. Harry Hilgcr, the founder of 
Ihe Hilger's Farm Market, and other 
people who needed labor had to pro- 
vide transportation and pay for Ihe 

German laborers well, my uncle 
cslabliihcd a long lasting friendship 
with them," Fenket said. 

Scotl enjoys being a hisioiy pro- 
fessor because it allows him id 
explore things that strike his cuiiDSity. 
ihings thai he likes to do and is able to 
share with Ihe rest of sociely while 
being paid for il. 

"[ have always been interested 
in Ihe fact that America is a place 
where a lot of different people from a 
lot of different places have come. I 
behcveihat this is a great influence on 
the United Stales. What drew i 






u Ihe in 






. of 



Michael Downs, 1939-2001 



Michael Clark Downs, associate professor of politi 
science and chair of the deparuneni of political st 
c, passed uway of an apparent heart atlack y 




Correction: 



Lasl week in the ar 



:"Bulleti 



campus inrormation to studenls," Mary Schoeler. manager of user suppon, 
was miiquoled as saying. 'Tliis is a temporary way to have the bulletin 
boariU. ll uses GroupWise, Ihe same system that is used for Ihe course 
forums," The correcl stale ment was. 'This is a lempoiary way to have the bul. 
letin boards. Il uses Ceilidh, the same product Ihal is used for course forums." 
We apologize Tor the miscommunication and any inconvenience caused 
t^ Ihis error. 



Faculty artist series 




Pholo by DoOdy Jong. Photo EOiloi 
Benjamin ClifLSly, clannel, Lav/rence Slewarl, bassoon anu Masson Hobertson, piano, perJormad last Friday at Ifio fat:- 
ully artist series. 



Great Train Weekend to bring forth 
details on travel, life, history 



By Gloria de Faria, 
Chief Reporter 

Trains wiil be displayed and ihc hislory 
ol railroads revealed al the Fort Wayne 
Botanical Conservalory between 10 a.m. and 
5 p.m. on Saturday. Jan, 27 and from noon to 
4 p.m. on Sunday, Jan. 28. 

Sponsored by the Wilson Family 
Foundation, the Great Tram Weekend will 
feature trains of different gauges which will 
run in Ihc conservatory's rooms and show- 
case, along with displays an railroad history. 



evcni by selling up layouts in Ihc dilTc 
rooms. Similar lo last year, tables of pictu 
lileralurc and model trains will be found in 
conservatory where an expert on 



Nai 









Information from scenic railways 
c iri-itale region will 






"The great irain weekend brings alive 
the great er:i of train travel for our visilois and 
II IS a lot of fun. It includes topiary plants 
made into erghl-fixit tall animals, including 
elephants and ginffes," marketing coordina- 
tor Linda Miller said. 

Over a thousand people attended Ihe 
Oreal Train Weekend lasl year in oidet to 
observe Ihe two- train layout in the garden. 



According lo Rebecca 
Canales, manager of programs 
and services, the bright colors in 
the Botanical Conservatory lift 
everybody's spirits al ihis time of 
the year. Canalcs went on to say 
ihat each year, for the past several 
years, they have had a train layout 
in the garden with a live U^in. 
which is now used as an eicusc to 
hold this special event, 

"We have invilcd the same 



:ording id Youth Program Spccialisi, 
yer. the eveni is an opponunily to 
;nneh lives and encourage Ihe youih of Fort 
Wayne in use the facili- 
ty. Il IS also an opponu- 
nily to educate young 

fcrenl aspects of gar- 
dening and lo let them 
experience Ihe wonder- 



"This event is very 
special to US because it 
crosses boundaries a 
Httle bit. It is not just 
about plants. It por- 
trays a sort of childish 
and fun aspect of gar- 
dening and that is the 
use of model trains." 

-Nate Meyer, youth 
program specialist 



servatory. 



n the 



:r. This year, many of the 
mmcrcially anymore ha' 



railways not used 
•c sent brochures 
ilway fancier and 
visiting." Canal es 



about plants. It portrays 
a son of childish and 
fun aspect of gardening 
and that is the use of 
model trains. Folks 
from all over Ihe local 
aucase this great hobby giving ilu- 
wonderful chance to learn about the 




Opinions Features 

Tributes to Professor Downs, Pages 2 and 3. Why fans like Limp Bizkit, Page 5. 



Sports 



Men's and Women's basketball teams defeat 
opponents, Page 6. 



January 25. 2001 



Opinions 




Remembering Mike Downs 

June 18, 1939-January 24, 2001 



Michael C. Downs joined IPFW in 1966 u Ihe u 
full lime faciiiiy membci in Ihe dcpanmcrtof politicJl sci 
He receivi-d his B.A, al Acquinas College and his M.A 
Ph.D. degrees from Noire Dome Univcrsily. He pused away 
uneipeeiedly in Ihe early morning houre of Januaiy 24. 

Mike's pusing is a personal loss because we hid been 
fiiends and colleagues for neatly 34 yeais. Mike's passing is 
even a grealei loss lo IPRV, lo his family and lo Ihe Fon 
Wayne community. Mike uas a rcspecled, widely read, well- 
liked professor wiUi high standinli and a great sense of humor. 
Mojl of all, he was a person of high inlegrily. Even people who 
ditagieed with him sought his advice and counsel, and he was 
there for anyone who sought his help and advice. He did so 
with grace. lioncMy and integrity. These are the qualities that 
distinguished him not only in the university, but in the com- 
munity at large. 

Those of us who were privileged to know and work with 
Mike ha« losl a friend and a colleague. IPJ=W has lost the 
voice of reason, moderation and integrity- 
Van Coufoudakis 
Prolessor of Political Science 
And Dean of the School of Arts and Sciences 



Few univcrsiues are fortunate enough )o have faculty lead- 
ers who care as much aboul Ihc university as Michael C. Downs 
did aboul IPnV. Mike gave nearly 3S years of selfless service as 
a professor of political science and speaker for Ihc lU faculty in 
the Foit Wayne Faculty Senate. He was, above all. an eXcqilion- 

Mike was inslnimental in structuring faculty governance ai 
IPFW, injuring that the voice of the faculty was heard. In addi- 
tion, he worked hard to guarantee that individual rights were pro- 
tected in the face of inslitulional pressures. 

This loss leaves a void in the IPFW community. Personally. 
I will miss his advice, his sage counsel and his ready wnt. I hope 
that other faculty members will honor Mike's memory by follow- 
ing his legacy ofdcdicalion lo leaching and university and com- 
munity leadership. 

Indiana-Purdue Fon Wayne Chancellor Michnpl Wanell 



Michael Downs 



I Cd 


I begm to 


express 


wbai a great loss this 




only for 


he IPFW 




but far th 


For) Wayne com- 1 


friend a" 




advisor ant 




tor. My heart goes o 


Id his 


family be. 


auselhiswassuchal 


loss to the 


m, 




Brian Sue 






Chairman 


of the Allen 


bounty 


Democrat 


c Party 





and. father 



)r and teacher. He 
look 3 personal interest and deeply c^ed 
about each of us who sought his wit and 
wisdom. He treated everyone with 
resDccL dignilv and with a wonderful 
sense of humor. He had a way of making 
people feel good aboul themselves. His 
passing is a great loss for his family and 
for his many, many friends in our com- 

Mayor of Fort Wayne Graham Richard 



MICHAEL C. DOWNS 

The busilein a house 
The momtng after death 
Is solemncst of industries 
Enacted upon earth,-- 

Thc sweeping up the hcarl, 
And putting love away 
We shall not want lo use again 
Until eternity. 



This IS tragic. 1 


ve known hin 


Ihr 


entire time I've 




IPFW He'sb 




leader. It will b( 




difficull to fm 




person to Till al 


Ihrn 


lis Michael f 




has played Ih 


OURhO 


ul the years. 


Hf's 


louched many 




He fought c 


Ihr 


behalf of the II 


faculty. He's a wonc 


crful 


teacher, colleag 
miss him 


cand 


fnend. I'm going to 


Judith Vmlclle, 








Director of Libr 


ry Services 





I just think he was a great pi 



k he was one of ihe few truly 
le people at this university. The 
people he has helped, the num- 



From my perspective, he 


vas an asset 


1.1 the university. He was : 


1 eicellem 


teacher and eollcaguc. He w 


1 be sorely 


missed by students, faculty and staff alike. 




When vou 


have students who come back and tell you 


how much they enjoyed his 


class, that's 


always a good sign. 




Chris Palteison 




Director of MulticulluralServ 


es 



I had him as a professor i 
e 1970s He influenced me to 
a mayoral campaign, which I 



Lois Euban 

Students With Disabilil 



Well. 



linly h 



support to IPFW He 
put the welfare of Ihe university, 

resource, first in his system of aca- 
demic and political values. Very 
many of us will feet his abi 
personally, every day. 

Rick Ramsey 



He was a great professor. He was interesting 
and 1 really enjoyed him. A friend of mine had him 
and loved him. He still talks about him. He was 
really into his leaching and really down-to-earth. 
He enjoyed what he was doing. 

Mary Frauer 



ni of work. He i 



n. He did an amazinf 
«as on the cutting edge 
chnology and his students loved him 
ut did all this stuff. He wasn't looking 
II the praise and glory. He just loved 



Secretary of history and political science. 
Blauvelt and Downs had worked togithe 



ik Mike Downs w 





He 


waso 


eoflhep 


larsoflheca 


mpus. 




Mi 


^-1' 


Sheir 


ofestor 




ion,l 




l^dtiship and 


Supervisic 









It's a bit of a shock right 
obviously. He always provided 
ity. That's what he represented to 
me-clarity of mind. You could 
always count on him to think care- 
fully and comprehend, then commu- 
nicate widi the fresh clarity aboul 
what was going on. I enjoyed what 
he had to say It was substantive. He 
tcnainly didn't waste words. He had 
a genuine compassion for peopli 
and a passion for his work. Anj-onc 

speaking lo you. his interest » 
whai you were trying to say.,, 
respect that tremendously. 



Mike and 1 we 


re very close. We worked on com- 1 


mitiees for the su 


e eleclio 


board He was on the 


Allen County Election Board. We've been friends ever | 


since I've been here, and tha 


; been over 20 years. He 


was the heart and soul of this 


ampus. It's hard to think 


that he's gone. A lot of peop 




problems.. .faculty, 


students 


staff, and Mike helped 


them all. He never; 


oppedc 




was a good friend. 






Bill Frederick. 






Associate professor 


ofmothe 




Frederick is p 






paignuj remove the 


souihwes 


parking lot. He plans lo 


name ii, "Downs, f 




1 honor and memory of 


how professor Dow 




sign his books ("Downs, 









This is a very sad day for me. While I didn'i 
ly know him at a personal level, but merely at u |.iu- 
inal one, my heail goes out to those whodid. Mike 
IS was certainly a role model for us on campus. 

in my little comer of the campus, he was the one 

who showed us that it was passible to reach out even 
further lo students via Ihe Iniemet-eien when one docs 
se a computer-through his online course. He had 
icanny vision in his teaching that allowed him to 

ibute substantially to the evolution of cducalion 

and technology. We have inily suffered a great lou 

Deb Sewards 

Iniuuciional Technology Coordinator 

School of ,\rts and Sciences 



Editorial Board Contact Us! 



Editorial Policy 



Heidi Salibn, Mana^mg Editor 
Mlshanna Wood, ;Vf« j Eihior 
Adam Taylor. Fcaiura Editor 
Nathan Oiehl, Sponi Editor 
Gloria de FnrU, Chlt/Rtpontr 
Eric Turr, Editorial Conoaniil 
Deddy Jong. Phoro Editor 
Kathy Oelngninge, Copy Editor 
Doric Reygoldi, Publiiher 



Unsigned editorials ar 
They do not necessarily reflect the vie 
its siudent body. A column is solely lb 



5 of IPFW. its employee or Class standing o, 



will never be published. 



E-mail: slupaper&amp;holmi 
Ttltphant: 
Editor: 481-6584 
Publisher- 481-6585 
Advertising; 48 1-6SB3 
Fax: 481-6045 






The Communicator welcomes responses from its readers. Submissioi 

Lelteis to the Editor and guest columns must be signed, dated and 

accompanied by a current, valid address. The editorial board of T^ie Communii 

edit all submissions for length, grammar. 

All submissions made via e-mail mujt be verified by phone or deemed libelous by The Communicator's e 
in penon. Submissions via mail or e-mail without this informatiun published under any circumstances. 



January 25. 200! 



Opinions 



On-campus resource profile and review: Campus Ministry 



WHERE: Third noor of Helmke Library. Room 362 



omcw in Walb a 



ir aboulFcb. 16 lo the 
cnlly used by Sludcnt Life 



March IS; FaiUi and Medldnc; Spinlual Cure for the 



PHONE &amp; EMAIL: 4St-6&lt;nZ, EDiesb@ipfwedu 

WEBADDRESS: www.iprw.edii/minislry/ 

OFFICE HOURS: Monday Ihrough Friday. 9-1 1 a m 

SPECIFIC SERVICES &amp; BENEFITS TO STU- 
DENTS; Campus Miniilry ofTeis weekly Bible sludy 
groups for sludinu. facully and su/f, a weekly Spiritual 
CybcrViiamin message, inpi, reiieals. counstling. mis- 
sions opponuniijci. Book of (he Monih Club, group 
Sludy on ipiiilual diKipline and a Universily Religious 
Farum lecture leries. Campus Ministry alio helps stu- 
dcnu Hnd local churches, ll it open id all studenu, fac- 
ulty and slafT. 

Sludenl Bible study and prayet meetings are held 
every Monday or Thursday from I2-I2:'15 p.m. inWnIb 



SPECIAL FEATURES WHICH NECESSARILY 
ENHANCE THE QUALITY AND VALUE OFSER. 
VICES; Pislor Ben Gales has eiperencc working with 
college students for over 20 years. Campus Ministry is 
supported by more than 50 churches in the 



inge o 



lable ' 



I the 



OUTLOOKS/PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE: 

The IPFW AdminislraliDn has approved the building of 
a Campus Ministry center. It the center is buill, a church 
fur "twenty- somethings" may be started. A CM-based 
I IS under construction, which be be coordmal- 



Ihtheii 



lebsite 



HAVE EXPERIENCE WITH THE DEPART- 
MENT: Cassie Blake, student officer (President) had 
(his 10 say about Campus Ministry: "I actually think it's 
a very nice place to be. People can come and be them- 
selves. They don't have to worry about being Judged. In 
our eyes, people are the same. 1 think Ben is a great 
leader. He's always trying to help us krtow God better 
and know ourschxs better. He helps us help others with- 
out judging. He's also open to suggestions. We learn the 
Bible in common sense ways and talk about scriptures 
and how you can put that in your own life. It helps us 
communicate belter and live better with other people. 
It's a real open atmosphere." Cass ie is a junior majoring 
in English. 

Freshman Brian Harmison said. "It's a fun group. 
We're able to gel together and talk about spiritual 
growth. We talk aboui things that are bothering us and 
things that are going well. It's a lot of fun." 

Freshman Jillian Carroll said, "It's helped me meet 
a lot of people. It helps jou get together with other 
Christians and it's a good way to get into missions trips 



Dr. Gates has a gift for ofTenng new and different 
insights on the meanings and implications of various 
lexis. Campus Ministry offers study groups and servic- 
es that address a wide array of people and needs. Ii is 
commendgblc that the ministry is open to all. The 
Spiritual CyberVitamin is a refieshing "byte" of Godly 
wisdom arid always arrives as scheduled. It wilt be 
interesting to have a weekly CM chat room or bulletin 
board for those who arc unable lo make the live meet- 
ings. Also, links on the website lo area churehcs might 
be helpful 

The new oflicc in Wjib will be more convenient 
and accessible because it will bring CM closer to other 
student groups' ofTiceS. It is unfonunato that the 
Ministry is forbidden from collecting offerings because 
it would provide the opportunity fur sludenls, faculty 
and staff ID Icam and participate in Biblical pnnciplci 
about giving. (They can meet here but they can't toke up 
offerings because this is a stale-funded in 



Secretary Ruth Knapp is helpful and w 



University Religious Forums: A monthly lecture 
ics about faith held in Walb 021 from noon-l:lS 
n. A no-charge, light lunch is provided. 



NEEDS OF THE DEPARTMENT: Campus Ministry 
is a dona lion -based ministry and funds are always need- 
ed. "We need good student leaders who want lo gel 
involved and make a difference on campus." Dr. Gates 



calls and other cc 






OPINIONS &amp; INPUT FROM STUDENTS WHO 



all students. Ben Gales is 
n both the classroom and Bi 
in both IS balanced, fair, accu 



Campus Miniilry at IPRV has come a long way in 
the lost couple of years and has qjade tangible dilTcr- 
)nal service ences in many lives. A very loud "thank you" lo those 
n excellent who have worked diligently and consistently for the 
; sludy. His purpose of reaching others. 



Excellent Educators Series: Professor Michael Clark Downs 



fellows 



i thtoughou 






New to The Communicator is the 'Etcellent Educators 
Series,' which will celebrate great professors who care about 
students. The first column in this scries is dedicated to the 
late Michael Clark Downs, who ser\ed as associate professor 
of political science and chair of the department of political 
science. Downs passed on the morning of Wednesday, Jan. 
24.2001. 

Downs' association with Indiana-Purdue Fori Wayne 
began in 1966. He was a resident lecturer until 1971. at 
which time he was promole4 10 assistant professor. Since 
1976, Downs has functioned as assiuriale professor. His 
administrative, legislative and governmental eipenence is 
long and admirable; Downs has earned innumerable acco- 
lades for his work and accomplishments. Notably, he served 
as Vice President of ihe Allen County Indiana Election Board 
since 1974. From 1987 lo 1990. he was Director of die 
Project for Political Education, an endeavor backed by a 
grant from the Foellinger Foundation 

Downs was a member of the Board of Directors of the 
Indiana Civil Liberties Union from 1991 to 1994. He won the 
C5SAC Service Award in 1986. as well as the Indiana 
University Foundation Distinguished Service Award in the 
same year. He was the recipient of several scholarships and 



Downs published articles in several publications and 
held various memberships in professional orgamulions His 
scholastic and professional accomplishments, while signifi- 
cant and enduring, arc second only to those in another realm: 
the lives of the people he touched. 

While collecting quotes from people who knew him. 
Downs' name was often mentioned in connection with Steve 
Hollander's. (Hollander was a professor in the English 
department and passed last year.) Of all the things people said 
about him, the most consistent response was that Downs real- 
ly cared about odiet people. He cared about the ilniversily. he 
cared about students and he cared about what happened in the 
community. Students, facully and members of the adminis- 
tration are deeply saddened by the loss of this great leader. 
Downs was mamed and the father of sii children Peiha'ps 
the most significant lessons, of all Ihat he taught, were the 
importance of fairness, respect and interest in others. As the 
saying goes, tho.se who forget Ihe lessons of history are con- 
demned to relive them Because of his service to and love for 

forgotten 

Thank you. Professor Downs, tor all you have done. 
May Cod bless you eternally 



■mi 


N^L^H 


■ 


■ «?:. 


■ 




'rmt 


1 


w^'jrM 






K-' ' 



Ralph Violette 
Associate pro- 
fessor of history 



It's shocking lo me.' Its hard 



derful person. Very 
knowledgeable in 
his field and willing 
to do anything to 
help anyone. 

Stephanie Hart 



Dr. Downs' death is a shock. It was only three days ago thai 
I was sitfing in his class. He led aclean, healthy lifeslyle. He eier- 
cised and he didn't smoke. He even rode his bicycle from home to 
school fairly regularly, unless he had to go downtown. His death 
for IPFW, Allen County, northeast Indiana 
the last couple 






of the I 



St brilhar 



s how truly 



The thought that keeps going 

blessed I was to have worked with him as an intern and have taken 
classes with him. I admire him. If and when 1 become a history 
professor, 1 would like to incorporate some of his leaching styles 
inio my own classroom. His lectures were subtle and sublime. He 
was a great storyteller. The stories were used to illustrate points in 
the class. I compare him to Socrates as far as his ability and his 
methixl. Downs subscribes lo the Socratic method. The memories 
and Rienutia he had stored away were just fascinating. He was a 
gieat human bcmg who has consideration and compassion for his 
students. I respected him and enjoyed him. I would someday like 
to be half the person Downs was. 

Rob Lopcr 

Hisiory major and political science minor 

Vice President of IPSGA 



The Communicator is 
always looking for new 
faces to join its staff. If 

you're looking for a 

way to get involved in 

your campus, stop by 

Walb 215 today!!! 



Michael Downs presents a 



Pholo by Elmoi Dunn 



^1 Campus 

- Calendar 



for Jan. 26-Feb. 14, 2001 



January 

26 Media Art Exhibition fealuhng Regional 
Proles 5 lonalB, VA Gallery; continues 
Ihrough April 6 Opening reception, S-8 p.m. 
For Inlortnalion, call 6705. 

31 African culture film: Rocking Popongulna 
(fa ttnt\B 6 Poponguino). Cinema Center, 
7 p m., free admlsjion. For Intormallon, call 
6632. 

February 

3 Children's coneertwith Roger Ufe, NF 101. 
11 a.m.; for inloimalion, call B5Q0 or 5683. 

5 Film SnrloB: Africana in America (four-pail 
PBS series). WU 118, noon-I p m ; also 
Fob. 13, 19, and 26, A discussion follows 
each video, for mtormalion, i^li 6608. 
Rape Aggression Dsfenso (sell-de tense 
course), WU GZ1. 1-4 p m,; also Fob. 7, 12, 
and 14. WU 222. For InfomiaUon, call 6827. 
Hlsh School Financial Aid Night. WU 222, 
6:30-8:30 p.m.: also Feb. 13. For 
Infoimallon. call 624V 

7 African culture film: Kinkou and tha 

SorcarBss (Kinkou el la sorzlire). Cinema 
Cenlsr, 7:30 p.m.; free admission. For 
intoimatlon. can 6632. 

S ViBual and PgrfDimlng Arts Career Day. 
Wr. 9:15-1 1:15 a.m.. rBgiitrall on at 
8:30 am For Information, can 6612 
Omnibus Lecture Series pretenls Srent 
Staples, 'The Cnsis in Education.* 
WU Ballroom, 7:30 p.m.; (o&lt; Informatkin, 

caiieaoe. 



Caieer assessment group Inlerpielallon, 

KT 123, noon. 

I.aw School Admission Tesi (LSAT), WU 12B. 



9 flfood Waddlna, WT. 8 p m , also Fab. 10. 15, 
1G, and 17. Forlntormatton, i^ll Ihe box 
office at 6S5S 

to RedHolLoveraiODI Forenalc Speech 
Teumament, NF loOQy, 8 a m -6 p m ; lor 
Information, call 5425 
Lunch with an IPFW Scientist: -Science of 
High Performance Dmiing," Allen G Pugh, 
Sdarca Central, 11.30 am -1 p.m.. for 
I 219-424-2400. 



IPFWAfrlcanCtilture Week. Feb. 12-16. for 
Inlormslion, call 6632. 

12 Lunch and discussion; "Ffom Fort Wayne lo 
Africa and Baek,' WU Ballroom, noon- 



13 FortWayna Area Community Sand and til 
IPFW Symphonic Winds. Scottish Rhe 
Audrtorium, 730 p m , for inlormalion, call 



14 HigherEducatlonDayalthaStatahou 
KT(((Dnldiivs).8B.m.-6p.m.;rDr 
Infonnalion, call Alumni Relallons at 61 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Features 



Submarine Titans brings 
strategy to underwater gaming 



Health Matters 



PMS: A cornucopia of treatment options 










ind alcohol (fot emouonil lymp- 

toms), reducing ulu catTeinc and 

nicolirc ((or fluid menlion) and 

Piemcnilniil syndrome — bcl- reducing fal inlake (in decrease 

known as PMS— is a physical body'i production of a substance 

iny sympli 

PMS). can help relieve symp-j 

loms. Exercise can help. bJ 

releasing endoiphins. the natural! 

painkillers of the body 

Ceilain naluml vitamins and 
heibs may be uterul, 

PMS 

published in the British Medical 

and Journal suggested that B5, at a dose 

than lOOmg each day, 

nL-ighl gain, jchci and pains, can be helpful (high doses can 

hcadjchci/migrainu. a change in cause neurological damage, so use 

appetite and changes in sleep pal- with caution). A faculty member of 

ictns Emotional symptoms the Botanical Medicine 

decreased /Treating 



researchers reported in 
Medical Journal thai 
Won (JSOmg hypencu 



, rcponed that signifi' 
cantly low levels 
V magnesium h; 



-&gt; ^^^ 

'"' taken three times n day was ,sul 
cessful in treating moderate depics 
sion. (Note: tonsult your pnmar 
care provider before combimn 
pieicriplion medications with nutri 
lional supplemcnls.) 

If the abofc suggestions d 

not help, there arc always ihc old 

i a n s a I standbys of ibuprofen( generic fom 

University of Advil) and Midol (or other si 



human civilizalian to submerge in 
the ocean. You arc at war with both 
I human faction and a group of 
aliens Ihal fallowed in the wake of 
the camel. Stuck in a military-class 
have been floating 



n for 



withai 



a sudden, a suaim of enemy sub- 
marines on a search and destroy 
mission envelop you and your squad 
uiih torpedoes. The ships are all 
araund you as you hear other cap- 
taitis yell in panic. Yuu ha\c lo ad 
quickly, as there are no prisoners 
uoderu'aler. 

Scenarios such as Ihcse may 
be ConlineJ to (he realm of Imagina- 
tion, but th^ can finally be played 
oul in Ellipse Studios' game 
Submarine Tilans. In Submarine 
Titans, players are made to build up 
nee Is in hoilile waleis, while pro- 
tecting allies (rom enemy attacks. 
At the same time, players 



able for play— the While Sharks, 
DIack Oclopi and the alien Siliconi. 
Each group has its own unique tech- 
nology with unique names and an 
intricate ability lo upgrade Ihrough- 
uui ihe game. These upgrades are 
available through technology cen- 
ters playeiS must build. 

Odier buildings Ihal are inte- 
gral parts of the war machine are the 
rep center, used lo repair damaged 
ships, and the munitions factory. In 
addition, there are depots and 
mines, which work logelher in the 
mineral collection process, and 

cannon. The most important build- 
ing, huwever. fs probably the suB^ 



and righting are among Ihe differer 
options players can choose fiom.i 
Ihc sub sialinn. There is even th 



parts of space and forcing i 
into conlaci with diffcrcm alien 
graups. With Submarine Titans, Ihe 
whole idea ihal people 






1 by 



waterproof underwater 
shcliets is very far-felchcd, even by 
sci-H slandatds. The game really 
doesn't do much lo draw you into 
the story, which, al limes, really 
makes ii dilTiculi lo want lo piny 
another scenario. The only thing 
thai pushes you for^vaId is youi love 
' the play. 

The play is actually prclly 
' ' r Aflcr slarling up a 



fot II 



ported by research 



nolog 



you 






enemy, claboralc defenses can be 
lonsliucicJ. supplies cm be raided 
and various types of technology can 

n and your faclion develops 






il thcii 






c. To me, that's' 



p their 



needed lo 
similar lo thai 



Using a game engine s 
of Bliziaid Enlcrlainmenl's 
Warcrafi and Stare laft games. 
Submarine Titans brings the style of 

.■srarmfl tmitrr Ihr rb-r-.m fnr -i miH- 



Sureraft 

Atlantic class! 

Submarir 



Thai brings me lo the Tirsl 
poini thai needs to be made about 
Submarine Titans. If you don'l like 
submarines, then you probably 
won't like the game. All Ihe game 
uses (or its units are submarines. 
Where Slaicraft may have used sol- 
diers, tanks and planes lo get the job 
done, that IS not an option in this 
game. After a while, upgrades to 
better subs are available which 
livens the game up a tittle bil. A 
sub's still a sub, though. 

Another thing that isn't thai 
great about the game is Ihe story 
behind the game. With Start ' ~ 



game enjoyable. Thai's 
really whal made Warcrad and 
Slaicmfl (un to play, though they 
did have decent stories to enhance 
iL Submarine Tiians doesn'I have 
the decern siorics, but it is worth 
checking out for all strategy gamers 
because it is a game ihal really 
requires thinking. Its 3D graphics 

^Vbethcr you play it far its 
similarity to Starciafi or you play it 
for the love of a gr&gt;od challenge. 
Submarine Tilans is a game worth 
playing (or any strategy gamer. 
Wilh the difHcuU e 



veted OS 



lodtew 



that are available. Submarine Titans 
makes (or a pretty good all-around 
strategy game 



iiciy. dcprcs- /^ woman can make sev- 

. /eral lifestyle changes to\ "pMs"Ii''nd 1'h" 
/help decrease the symptoms 
/of PMS: " 



Reduction in sugar, salt, fat, caf- 
feine, nicotine and alcohol in the 
diet can help relieve PMS symp- 
toms 




:aIion|. Talk to a phorma- 

eisl for further suggestions. Karen 

Salser, nurse pracliiiuner for the 

new XPFW Parkview Health am" 

fith Wellness Clinic in Walh Union, v 

qualiHcd to diagnose and itea 

uggesied tflk- PMS, She recommends that PMS 

ing lOOOmg symptoms b&lt; 

of magne- the menstrual cycle for 2-3 months 

sium daily, before visiting a primary cate 

prouder. She also recommends and 

offers an e.icellent pamph 

Urs Easllund and Hager entitled 

"Premenstrual Syndroi 

" I Doctors. - 

If lifestyle changes ar 

I supplements do not 

improve symptoms o( PMS, please 

consult your primary care provider. 

He can do further lesling and/or 

ribc medications lo help alle- 

symploms. Keep in mind Ih^l 

' PMS can be dimeull. 

I de(ea(ed if theiymp- 

easily controlled. 






So FREE .^ 

it comes with a Qltt 



Digital Solution Stores 

622d East store Blvd. Fort Wayne. IN d6815 

1600 

minutes 

$30 

and the phone is 

FREE! 

limited time offer- call now 

705-3501 466-1411 

Digital cable and Comcast @ home high speed internet access 

CeTSTTEISJIMIAL fl| 

'.V I H E L E S S V^ 

Autharizod Agent 



Comcast, 




Features 



Limp Bizkit: The 'dumb rock band' you 
can love and hate at the same time 



3 Fied DursL fan. you piobably won 
&gt;rcad. Then again, if you dcspi 
II. Latlooed and piccced. 




c. Tlie music is a 

plelc rip^ff uf Kom'i slylc in thai 

\ hard and heavy and employs %• 

I sunng guitars, which are all Ihc ra 

Kain Ihemselves ai 

muMc The i 



linipic. 1 know : 



ic who'd ralhcr sell 
10 Limp Bizkil 
Anolher fncnd puU me in a choke hold 
every lime I proclaim, "Duisl is a sell-aul.' 

ir you are looking for iomelhing 
dislike aboul Dursi and his band. Ih: 
blacklist of unsavory tnils is praclically 
endless. The same can be said. Uiough, 
for what's good about thi 






(=11-01 



:niiibk 



. Th( 



term 'sell-out' is in itself a vague, 
matic concepl. It has very diFTcrent meanings for differ- 
ent people For me. a band has achieved scll-oul status 
when they have become so huge and soovct-played that 
jusl lislenrng la them makes me tired and bored or dis- 
gusted. For others, the term means thai a band has got- 
ten commercialized or no longer plays the same type of 
music they played when they staned. 




en before, too I swear I'se seen Emu 

and even Britney Aguileia. Or is her name Chii^lina 

Spears'! ! can'l ever remember which is which. 

People mimic DunL Jusl like they mimic Eminem. 
And (hose two girls. Even those luo girls look like each 
otho. Rullingilone has a real crafty picluic in Iheir 
January issue of the pair. They are al a microphone 
accepting some award and it's really hard id tell ihem 
apart without the photo caption underneath. 

Eminem thought it necessary to write an entire 
song. "The Real Slim Shady." aboul people mimicking 
him and his apparent dislike of this, 

ll would be easy lo mimic either one of these two 
Eminem would only require a haircut and some blonde 
hair dye. Add maybe a t-shirt and a formidable reper- 
toire of obscenities. 

Duist only requires a cap turned backwards, a big 
necklace, huge jeans, l-shirt and a litilc hair on the chin. 

Duist has compelling personality. His effect on 
people IS at limes astounding. It even goes beyond mim- 
'aduencing the way some fans behave. Bizkit' 




"Rollin' 






r third a 



light when 
of [he guys ttiere immediately wen 
cranked up the lolume. His whot 



n Ihc 



and Eminem make tulgar publm aUlcmcnts abimi her 
and het like. Slipfcnoi bums her posters at their shows. I 
jusl criliciie them in ncwspapci articles, tt doesn't real- 
ly matter, though, does ilf Haling Spears i.s the "in" 
thing for hard rockers to do. [t gives ihem something 
else to sing about besides pain. 

Durjt's other genius social move was when he and 
Napster creator Shawn Fanning teamed up. The deal 
Ihcy seem to have come to is simply brilliant. Both sides 
aim lo profit immensely by hooking up. BizkJl gets iwfi 
things. One. they get something of legitimate, or al least 
a Durw- approved, exposure on Napster. The eiposurc 
surely will add to thciirecordsalcs.Tivo. by standing by 
Napsler. Biikil members become ablators and enemies 
10 everyone trying to bring Nspsler down-especially 
Metallica and the music industry. 

I really like Metallica, but 1 just do not understand 
(his healed battle against Napster. It's supposed lo be 
aboul inlellectual rights, right? But it jusl comes across 
as if Mctallica. especially their whiny little drummer. 
Uus Utrich. arc jusl being greedy, oral least resistant lo 
change. I suspect ihc longer thcy«iBnd in the way of 
what'.i about to change, the harder (hey will fall. 

Bcmg an agilalor of the music industry, 



simply by h&lt; 



at least in my opin- 
:y have become in the post 



Ihrc 

I. the band was destined for 
Darlings of Oufest '98, they scored heavy airplay wiih 
their remake of George Michael's odious '80s hit 
"Failh."Thts in ilself isapoini thai makes them nol only 
vampirish in sucking the life out of an old song, but also 
makes ihcm seem like not very good musicians if they 
can't become successful from (heir owti songs. 

Even so, Bizkit was on to something with Ihcir 
remake of "Faith." Elaborating on the song's simple 
verse-chorus-veise siruclure. Durst and his crew added 
an enormous sound and nip- like singing. 

The combination proved (o be infectious-so much 
so that millions of college-age men fell in love with 
Bizkit and remembered them when they released (heir 
many limes platinum second album, "Significant 
Other" 

The rap- rock hybridization is nothing new. [t was 
pioneered in the 19E0s by Run DMC. Run DMC had a 
great idea: Let's rap over Aerosmith's magnificently 
diny "Walk This Way" guilar riff. The idea had all (he 
righl ingiedien(s-jccessible lyrics and catchy music-to 
make il a hil. Run DMC, however, did not follow up on 
Iheir new style of music and it was left to rot away. 

The new genre was revived in the early '905 wilh 
the advent of Rage Against the Machine. Rage Against 
the Machine was arguably one of the most leftist and 
politically fueled bands ever. Rage was outfiltcd with a 
communist lead guitarist. Tom Morello. and a dead- 
locked angry rapper, Zach de In Rpcha. who screamed 
lyrics like -•••• you 1 won't do what you tell me." 
Unforlunaiely. the band aimed at nothing more than to 
make people uncomfortable. Rage has their fans, but 
they are nol anywhere near as' popular as Limp Bizkit. 

What Bizkit has done with the idea of combining 
rap and rock is thai they have made it simple and easy 
to get. They've dumbed it down. 

Dumb or not. it sells and has been hugely succcss- 



Thc lyrics in the song 

at confusing. They 
find Duist relating a bad eiperience lo all of his friends 
about a former girlfriend who cheated on him. Then 
Dursi seems lo justify the eiperience wilh himself by 
saying "I did ii all for (he nookie" (he was only with her 
for the sex&gt;. Okay. Who was using who'? Thai's not real- 
ly imponant Whalis importan( is that Durst gave all his 
fans a phrase wilh which lo justify any bad eiperience 
with Ihc opposite sex. And alt he had lo do was ihink 
aboul something that really hadn'l been said in so many 
words before, and come up with a really simple way lo 
say it and create a whole new slang word. 

The crowning achievements of "Signifieanl 
Oihci" lie in track five. "Rcananged," and track 10. "N 
2 Gelher Now." "Bearranged" shows the depth of Ihe 
band's talenl-thal they're not really a dumb rock band 
undemcadi all the hype. They can create some compli- 
cated songs and maybe they aren't ihat bad of musicians 
after all. 

'Together Now" is really a stand-oul track because 
Bizkil completely abandons the dumb lock band image 
and adopts the role of a rap group. It's a cross-over song 
with cross-over appeal. It defies ihc notion that fans will 
abandon u gioup when they change their music to some- 
thing that fans arei ' 




Eminem hate been quoted everywhere 
n this paper) widi their playful potshot 
about Aguilera and fellatio. By Duisl saying this, he is 
proclaiming thai he despises Aguileia. 'That just gives 
fans one more reason (o like Durst, And deu^ctors one 

Aguilera or Spears-there really isn't a distinction 
between the two for me-aie the laiesi queens of pop. 
Dursl's comments reinforce one of (he founding themes 
of heavy rock-it's supposed 









uHesc 



ingenioi 



ibility 



mofit. 



c. Or al 



wilh it 



By saying ivhat he does about Spears. Durst 
reinforcing his throne at the top of the rock dunghi 
He's giving everyone what uc want. Even Britney gi 



Napster gels is a musician spokesman-one who, unlike, 
say, Courtney Love, has moss appcal-which is precise- 
ly what Napster needed. 

To conclude this very exhausting and lengthy arti- 
cle, I'd like lo say thai I suricd out wTiting i( widi every 
intention of destroying Durst and Limp Bizkil, at least 
critically. But after much Ihoughi and much revision, it's 
dear to me dial no matter how much I try lo argue 
against the simplicity and dumbed-d owned ness of Limp 
Bizkil's songs, I still like ihcm and am able to enjoy 
them. The one thing aboul simple music that's hard lo 
admit IS ihal il sometimes is more enjoyable and more 
appealing lo listen lo than so-called high-brow music, 
like Radiohcad or Mozan. 



highly II 



itable Ihat Durst would evci 



d know how to deal with record 



pany ei 



highly ei 



ful. lis U! 



s for it 



likely is 
;. Dumb rock S' 



iidc. I Ihink Dutsl is the "genius" I've 
heard friends call him. He writes ihe majority of the 
material on his albums. Bizkil's second album high- 
lights the band's real talenl. On "Significant Other." 
they Iradc in dieir cover sang chops and effeclively 
blow us away wilh some truly fantastic original songs. 

Granled, the songs on "Signifieani Giber" are not 
exactly masterpieces in, say, the way thai Jimi 
Hendnii's songs arc. For ihe most part. Bizkit's songs 
are almost overly simplified. Track four on the album, 
"Break S(uff," defies even the three chord simplicity of 
punk lOck-arguably Ihe mosi simple form of rock 
music-with its very simple-even stupid-lwo chord riff. 

The first huge hil off of "Significant Other," 
"Nookie." was, 1 think, so successful because of iu 



nem. after all. 
Shady"-as in slender in physique and shady in behavior. 
What leolly ore ue lo make of Slim's interpretation of 
obviously derogalory words againsl women and homo- 
seiuals? How arc diey nol derogatory to him? Perhaps 
he n^Ily takes them the way he has said he does in 
numerous imervicws-Ihal is, he really doesn't admit to 
anything, but apparently leav^ il up to us lo decide Bu&lt; 
I think 1 know what he really thinks 

Shady's second album contains a gruesome song 
called "Kim." Il depicts the murder of his wife. Shady 
loses his head in the song, or al leosl il sounds like he 
docs from the (one of his voice. But. then again, we 
aren't supposed to take him seriously. Bui what if the 
song's plol came Irue and Shady murdered his wife? No. 
Shady's just loo cold and calculating to do thai. 

Eminem is jusl a shady character. His pal Durst is 
too. On one level. Durst is the all-American-Fred 
Hi nistone-midd I e- class- while guy. He also epitomizes 
the stcreolypical fral boy right down lo the emerging 

In fact, when I was a sludenl at IU Bloomington, I 
swear I saw Durst walking near my dorm once. When I 
went up ID gel a closer look ind maybe shake his hand 

he really wa.tn'1 the real Fred Durst. Just a very good 
look-alike who nearly fooled me But I've been mislok- 



BURRITOS AS BIG AS YOUR HEAD!® 



Tacos &amp; Tortas, Too! 

"We're Hard to Handle 
bur easy to Love!" ® 




IE 1^ ^^'^^ulhentic Fast Mexican FoodI 



Marketplace of Canterbury • Next to Piere's 
5706 St. Joe Rd., Ft. Wayne • 219-485-4363 



Attention Student Access Lab 
Customers 

IT Services, including student consultants, were surprised to read in 
the Nov. 30 issue of The Communicator that a few consultants have 
been said to be less than courteous when asked for assistance. We 
were shocked to also read that a consultant was part of a group view- 
ing pornography in the Walb lab. These incidents had not been 
reported to IT Services so that corrective measures could be taken. 

IT Services takes its responsibility for managing the student access 
labs very seriously. A lab supervisor was hired in August to oversee 
and improve the day-to-day operations of these labs, and to assist the 
IT Sen/ices student consultants with training and tools to improve 
their effectiveness with our customers. 

The consultant's role in the lab is to assist students in using the facili- 
ties, trouble-shoot problems in the lab facilities and report problems 
requiring a technician to the IT Services' Help Desk. Completing class 
assignments and learning the tools to complete them, are the respon- 
sibility of the student. The consultant does not provide software train- 
ing, but will assist the student in using the software's help features. 

We agree thai the viewing of pornography in the labs is offensive and 
should not be occurring. The lab consultant's handbook states that 
the consultant is to inform anyone viewing pornography in the lab that 
they are in violation of the Code of Ethical Conduct, and to cease this 
activity. They have university resources to contact if this person refus- 
es to cooperate. 

There are avenues available to report problems experienced in the 
labs to IT Services, including a tack of proper support. We have the 
Computing Q&amp;A Forum, accessible from the Student Computing 
Resources home page. The lab supervisor's name, email address 
and office phone number are available on the web. We have also 
added a lab survey linked from the Student Computing Resources 
home page for students to send comments on-line to IT Services. 

Let us know how we are doing. 



Sports 

January 25, 2001 ^^JW^^B W 

Men's basketball wins squeaker 




dutuve. bccjusi [he Masiodoni 
nccdeil c\tiy poini Ihcy hjd 
down the lunch. 

Quiiicy'ilannl Thompson hii 
his third Ihrce-poinier aC the 
: wiUi 3 08 left in ihc second 



clinth iht gjiTic. He missed 
fieclhrou'S and the subiequcnl 
ptayx led lo an inbaunding 
tian under EPFW's tuskei 
lAO seconds fefi. 

Quincy squandered ihcir 
69 and chance, how/evei. and jou know 



half, tying the 
Kolding making Ihe gai 
interesting. 

Wise eommmed an otrcn- 
sive foul, but Quincy's Lampton 
Johnson answered right back. 
»:nding Quincy inio the penalty 
and Nolt lo Ihc Tree throw line. 

Noll hit bodi rrccchiows and 
freshman Keion Henderson 
scored a baskci and a Foul with 



Coming down court. 
Johnson threw a wraparound pass 
lo 6-5 Quincy center Brian Nonhem Kentucky 
McNeil, who scored, puiti . .. .. 



5 IPFW met 

jratcil Ihei. _ , , ___ 

Pholo by Doddy Jong, Pholo Editor j^jn of [he season. [PF\V missed on their nejil 

IPFW players walch as Ihey score a baskel. Sophomore possession, bui Noll recovered 

Brad Noll and for one of his three steals when 

Junior Nick Wise Johnson lost control of the ball. 

They sat in the bleachers led thcMastodons with 18 and 17 and sophomore Deangcio 

and watched as (heir female poinis, respeclively. as Ihe V/oodall hil one freethrow after 

eounterparU produced a 13-point Mastodons pulled out a 74-72 being inlenlionally fouled, 

diffetenliai in a not-quite-so- victory. Quincy immcdialcly 

eiciling game against Quincy JuniorMailShcphcrd added answered with one Treclhrow 

University in the Gates Spotu 14 points off the bench as die and. shortly thereafter. Wise 

CenteronJan. 18, main contributor in a 27-poinl became the neil visitor lo the line 

After seeing the visiting reserve performance. It is a good with precious little time left on 

Icam manhandled, it mu!^i have thing that the bench was so pro- the clock and the opportunity lo 



"I thought as ihe game pro- 
gressed, wc got belter and belter,' 
Head Coach Doug Noll said. *f 
Ihoughl we toughed it out.' 

Il has been tough for IPFW 
lately, who won their second 
game in a row after dropping six 

That sis-game losing streak 
included losses to NCAA 
Division I schools Marshall and 
Ball Siale, a loss to NCAA 
fourth -ranked 
id a game 
which the 
Mastodons led for 3S 

With IPFW ineligible for 
Ihe GLVC Tourtiamcnl, it is only 
going lo gel harder 

'All the teams we arc play- 
ing arc lighting for (he postsea- 
son loumamcnl,- Noll said. "Oor 
mcentivc has lo be that we have 
to play for pride, lo be the spoil- 
er, to gel beller, for a savings 
account ... we have lo bank 
everydiing wc have for niii year 



Women's 

basketball 

downs 

Quincy 

University 



Jtunic Holdcrman came out shooting m the First 
half of the women's basketball game agarnsi Quincy 
University on Jan, IS. and dug the opposition a grave. 
In the second half. Ihe Maslodons buried Quincy and a 
ihrec'game losing sircjk. 'We really needed a win,' 
Head Coach Karl Smesko said. 

On Jan. 6. the Dons had squared off against 

Bdlaimine University with a 10- 1 overall record and a 

conference record. Bui that crushing 86-110 I 



Pla5ang tough 




a downward s 



s theit 



record dropped to 10--) and 3.4 In Ihe GLVC ov, 
course of the ne»l seven days. 

Worsl of all, Ihc three losses during this streak 
came at the hands of GLVC foes and in the Gales Sports 
Center in from of home crowds. 

Holderman and IPFW were not about to lose at 
home again, and they ensured Ihcir win in the first half. 
Playing all 40 minutes, a red-hot Holditman connected 
on lOof IS shots, including Five of sin ihree-poinlers en 
route lo a game-high 25 points. She scored 19 of those 
points in the first 20 minules of Ihe game, after which 
IPFW led 33-19. 

Quincy mode a 12-2 run after the half, holding 
IPF\V to a single basket for over eight minules of play. 
This tun cut die lead to four, but then sophomore Trish 
Renting picked up the offensive slack and IPFW slow- 
ly pulled away, rebuilding dicir lead lo 64-51 by game's 
end. ricming Finished with 18 points and four steals in 
28 minutes. 

Freshman Amy Geralds scored 12 poinu. despite 
struggling from Ihe floor and sophomore Tecara Dudley 
had lOrebounds. 

1PF^V shot only 39 percent for die game and, aside 
from Holdeiman's pcifDrmance. were 0-8 from behind 
die arc. They counleied by holding Quincy lo a horrid 
25 percent shooting in the First half as the visiling team 
drew air or iron on 24 shots. 



In addition, Ihe Dons held die edge in virtually 
every stalislical category while oul- rebounding Quincy 
43-35 and committing only 1 1 personal fouls. 

Although Smesko was pleased wiih Ihe win. he is 
by no means jubilant about his team's pcrfontiancc of 
late. "I'm not really happy with bow we are playmg 
right now,' he said. 'We're having a hard time putung 
together 40 minules of good basketball. " 

Rather. Smesko believes the good basketball has 
been coming in spurts-sU'ctches of good defense nr 
olTcnsc, approtimalely 20-25 minutes in duration. 

And it has not beep enough, as several games diir- 
ing Ihc losing streak just slipped away^ most poignaniK 
a 51-53 loss lo the Univcisily of Indianapolis on Jan 
13. Even in viclory. die eighl-minuic scoring droughi ji 
the beginningof die secoiid half was worthy of contirm. 
as Holderman was unable to score and IPFW nearly kf 
Quincy b; 

Smesko hopes 



GLVC 

ID play for. Smesko 



egame. 




Earn SSS pr 


amoting 






like Nine Ir&gt; 


h Nulls. 


Fou Fighters, 


Red Il»l 


Chill Peppers 


Eminem 


&amp; Tlie CrysIB 


Method. 




ecessary. 


Visit www.noiJer 


illution.com 


foi info and then 


call Mindi 


(? 800-966 


1816. 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



) United Art and Education(J 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



JOIN OUR WAREHOUSE TEAM &amp; WORK IN A FRIENDLY ENVIRONMENT. 

■ Werk part-time new/Full -time in the jummep 

■ OuU&amp;s include srdcr fillins (includes jeme light liftins op to SOIbj] 

■ starting at 17.50 



Contact Mark or Tom: 

(219) 478-1121 Monday-Friday 



(f^nitedOn 

II Art and Educatton \\ 

4413 [liinan Rtiid, Fort Viipe. \H 



Super Bowl XXXV 
perspectives 



So ii's not the Colts and it's not the 
Bears. Big deal. Ifs still iwo quality foot- 
ball learns and thai always makes for a 
great game of fool- ^ 

This 
Super Bo' 



vl fea- Coi 

teatns. The New York Giants, picked by 
many to finish ihe season last in Ihe NFC 
East, had won seven straight gami^ to 
help diem lo the big game. The Baltimore 
Ravens have won 10 svaighl games lo gci 
(here, including two big games m ihe 
playoffs as Underdogs — on die road. 

tn recent years, the Super Bowl has 
been a showcase of offensive skills, with 
the memorable offensive efforts of the 
Cowboys. 49ers and Packers. This year 

teams dominated by 



Super Bowl XXXV doesn't quite 
spout Ihe eloul of a vcleran ofTcnsive 
player such as John Elway or Troy 
Aikman. Both teams ore powered by a 
total defensive team efforl. This game is 
die epitottw of what ihe Super Bowl it 
supposed to be. It's nol aboul Ihe players, 
ll's rmi about Ihe money. It's about this 
thing we call a gome. 

In cose you have forgotten, foolball 
IS a game, not a business. A game between 
two teams, artd two teams whoVill Tight, 
nip and luck for the nght to be called the 
champion of Ihe Super Bowl. 

The Super Bowl is about you and 
your fnend.i silling in front of die TV eat- 
ing chips and salsa, [t't about having a 
good time wilh ihe guys, Ihe last chance 
you have to be "one of Ihe guys" and 
foolball game for another eight 



onihs a 



s up ti 



enjoy d 



1 blowc 



1 dicte, they 



IlihatiolheRav 



The Super Bowl is about 
you and your friends sit- 
ting on the couch eating 
chips and salsa. It's about 
ha\'ing a good time with 
the guys, the last chance 
you have to be "one of the 
guys" and watch a football 
game for another eight 
months. 






in of 



ihe classic, in which 
the Gianl.s took home 
the trophy. Il was 
then, under Iht presi- 
dency of George 
Bush, that the Giants 
last won Ihe champi- 
onship. And i.tn'l il 
just fitting thai on the 
glorious anniversary, 
die Giants return lo 
Ihe Super Bowl and 
George W, Bush is 






id is plan 



Consider great defensive 
Ihe great Sleel Curtain that hung in 
Pittsburgh, or perhaps Ihe Purple People 
Eaters or Ihc '85 Bears. And what about 
LT's Giants or Doomsday? And whal 
about Ihe '01 Ravens? 

The who? 

Sure, the Ravens probably aien'l 
going lo rank up Iherc widi Ihc likes of die 
Sicel Curtain or the Doomsday, but you 
do have lo send oul your props. Serio'usly. 
defense is what makes a game really 
i:lo,ic— and thus, good and enjoyable. Ifa 
score is 10-7. going into die fourth quar- 
ter, you're enjoymg ihe game, watching 
eieiy play, every move, biting your nails. 

Defensive battles are Ihc hallmark of 
what a good game is supposed to be. Il 
makes the game exciting and enthralling 
and keeps you waiting for a commercial 
before you head lo the reslroom. for you 



White Houm:? 



Balbmorc, one of the NFL's grcalest 
cities, will once again have a team in the 
Super Bowl and Art Modell fmally has Ihe 
opportunity to win a Super Bowl. 
Mod ell's personal friend and Gianis 
owner. Well Mara, is hoping lo bring 
another Super Bowl championship back 
(o New York, 

The iwo cities have played host to 
IWO of die NFL's grcatesl games: die '58 
NFL Championship, which Ihe Daltimute 
Colls won 23-17. in ovenime and of 



:. die g. 



ilched D 



play 10 change Ihc ( 






ESPN CIa.(sic so many limes. Super Bowl 
III, in which die New York Jets were able 
ID lake down Baltimore 16-7. 

The two teams are full of firsl and 
second round draft picks, Baltimore hav- 
ing 16 and New York having 15, ini:luding 
opposing quarterbacks Kcn-y Collins and 
Trim Dilfcr, which should prescni iLscIf 



cncnixuriixicrnnc/acflcncrnxicncncnixuxicn 



The Communicator is now 
accepting applications for 
the following paid positions: l&lt;; 

Advertising '* 
Manager &amp; 
Ad Designer 



The position of Advertising Manager offers 

a per issue base salary plus 15% 

commission for all local advertising sold. 

Additional responsibilities include weekly 

billing of clients and maintaining a sales 

register. 
The position of Ad Designer offers a per 

issue salary. Knowledge of Macintosh 

operating systems as well as layout and 

design skills are essential. 



To apply, submit a resume' to: 

The Communicator 

Walb 215 

2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 

Walb Union, Suite 215 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

For additional information call 481-6585 



cri(xicricricricricr i (;ncn(/nx&gt;cnc/^c/^cncncncn 



