Ratlab:An Experiment in Live Art • Page 6 



April 1, 2009 



Volume 39 
Issue 25 



sm 



www.ipfwcommunicatororg 





Forgotten ri^ Wayne 

Stimulus Package Could Restore Passanger Rail 
Service in FoftWayne, Create Opportunities 



By Katy Anderson 

Photos bj' Lucas Carter 



&amp;|l- 




Twenty years 
ago a passen- 
ger rail ser- 
vice traveled from Fort 
Wayne to Chicago and 
other major cities. In 
1990, it was decided 
that this service was not 
economically feasible 
and was consequently 
shut down. 

Despite being shut 
down, the people of Fort 
Wayne were still active 
in promoting the ben- 
efits rail service would 
bring to the communit&gt;'. 
Though it took two de- 
cades, this institution 
now stands a very good 
chance at being rein- 
troduced to Fort Wayne 
once again. 

The Obama Admin- 
istration has opened 
up millions of dollars in 
the economic stimulus 
package for expanded 
rail service all across 
the country. The federal 
stimulus plan includes 
$8 billion for new pas- 
senger rail service dur- 
ing the next few years. 
This encompasses In- 
diana and Fort Wayne's 
restoration of modern 
passenger rail service. 

&gt; Rail Service: Page 2 



April 1,2009 HBWS 



^R^ Service 



In 1999, the High Speed Rail Initiative was estab- 
lished to develop ideas of rail service returning to 
Fort Wayne, though circumstances of the national 
economy hindered development on the initiative. 

" IFort Wayne) has a first class airport, a good high- 
way system, so why not a railroad?" Headwaters Park 
director and initiative advocate Geoff Paddock said. 
Paddock also notes that Hon Wayne is the second 
largest city in Indiana and is also one of the largest 
cities in the country that does not have rail service. 

This project would not build a new high speed rail 
system, instead, e]dsting rail lines would be upgrad- 
ed so that they could run at Amtrak speeds, which 
is approximately 110 to 120 miles per hour. Service 
would run betiveen Lima Ohio, Fort Wayne, Indiana, 
and Chicago, Illinois. 

Bail service may be of interest to local college stu- 
dents, as tliey would be able to take a train to these 
areas instead of driving for several hours, paying for 
parking, or leaving their cars unattended for long pe- 
riods of time. 

"As a college student, 1 would like to see more pub- 
lic transportation options available to the student 
papulation," IPFW student and Downtown Improve- 
ment District employee Justin Stalter said, "However, 
this won't happen automatically. The community has 
to voice its opinion and show strong support for pas- 
senger rail," 

This could also help the Indiana economy. Con- 
struction and maintenance of this project would cre- 
ate more jobs. This also would cater to downtowTi 
development, as business owners would be enticed 
to put their shops, restaurants, and other establish- 
ments in an area where many people are commut- 
ing. Overall, implementing a rail service in Fort 
Wayne could potentially create 4500 jobs. 

Rail semce also impacts traffic congestion and 
the environment. Though an Amtrak train can trav- 
el at speeds of over 100 miles per hour, it is much 
friendlier to the environment. According to an 
torial written by Paddock and Tom Hayhurst, rail 
transportation uses about a tenth of the fuel per pas- 
senger mile, when comparing a train with AOQ pas- 
sengers with an automobile canning one passenger 
Not only is this more environmentally sound, but it 
can also help decrease the U.S. dependency ur 
eign oil. 

Paddocksays that this project has had overwhelm- 
ing support. In an effort to strengthen this commu- 
nity effort, there will he a Rally for Rail at Ihn Rakei 



Street Station on Friday, Apr. 3 at 4:30 p.m. 

"It ivill be a good opportunity to show state and 
federalofficialsjusihowmuch we want passenger rail 
service back in the community," Staiter said. Stalter 
also encourages people to write letters to state and 
federal officials and editors of local newspapers. 

Derrick lames of Amtrak and RickHarnish of the 
Midwest High Speed Rail Association will be joining 
Mayor Henry to rally community support for the pas- 
senger rail. 



Implementing a rail 

service in Fort Wayne 

could potentially create 

4,500 jobs 





Join us 
for our 



March 19th, 4pm- 7pm in the Clubhouse 



Be one of the first 30 to 

sign a lease and receive 

a $250 Visa Gift Card! 



Free 

Food and 

Prizes 



Fully Furnished 

Washer &amp; Dryer In Every Apartment 

iPod Docking Station in Every Apartment 

Resort Style Pool 

Free Tanning 

Joe Place 

smart student living.com 

5204 St. Joe Road, Fort Wayne, IN 46835 

(260) 444-3000 

Lett on Crescent Ave. Lett on Si. Joe Road. We're on the rlgtit. 




April 1, 2009 



politics and money 



pg. 3 



nmtsting 



Hide-and-Seek Bills 

Factoring in minor expenses to ease financial tension 



By Jessie Ruckman 

Jessie. RudunanBrplwiommunka lo t, org 

When I receive my pay- 
check, the money is of- 
ten gone before it hits the 
bottom of my checlcing account. My 
Spidey senses tell me that I'm not the 
only student who feels that way - but 
where does all that money go? Why do 
I always feel like I'm so strapped for 
•cash that every meal away from home 
is meticulously plajined in advance? I 



sat down recently and thought about 
this and the answer surprised me, and 
it may surprise you as well. We are 
nicket-and-diming ourselves to death. 
Think about it. You figure your bills 
- the 'main' things' like rent, car loan. 
Internet, etc. But do. you think about 
the little things like lunch, coffee, new 
shoes, etc.? Stop for a minute and take 
stock of the 'others' that you dole out 
cash for 

Your hard-earned cash Jias not run 
away and hidden from you, so don't 



bother checking under the couch 
cushions or shaking down your sticky- 
fingered roommate for the goods - the 
likely culprit is you. miscalculating 
your total expendimres. (See, that 
word alone is worth S,5.) 

Chew on this: when budgeting 
monthly expenses, don't forget to fig- 
ure in the incidentals, those things 
you may think are too minor lo wor- 
ry about when you open your wallet. 
Most people only factor in major bills, 
such as rent, car loans, insurance, and 
God forbid, credit cards. And though 
it is important to put money aside for 
those big bills, it is also essential that 
people on budgets also think small. 
Look for those little e.ttrds you shell 
out money for, and write them down 
in a notebook somewhere so that you 
can trackjust how much you're spend- 
ing. 

Here's a bright ideaunake a com- 
prehensive list, no matter how much 
it may ScaiB you to do so. My stomach 
hurt when I did, but the ability to see 
the whole financial picture was weL 



worth the Tums I had to chew. Start at 
the beginning - what's due on the first 
of the month? In the middle? At the 
end? Then, add in the little things like 
groceries, bar labs, and tanning . . . see 
where I'm going with this? 

And next month when you figure 
up your bills, think of litde thmgs such 
as these because they can add up to 
big bucks and a much lighter wallet: 
Gas, car maintenance, groceries, fast 
food conveniently located on campus, 
weekend enlerlainment like movies, 
bar cover charges, restaurant tabs, en- 
tertainment, DVDs, CDs, video games, 
doctorvisits or prescriptions, clothing, 
random splurges 

If any of these "minor" expenses 
apply to you, add a ballpark estimate 
to your monthly list of bills. Factor in 
what means the most to you in terms 
of necessity', and trim the financial 
fat where you can. Make these small 
changes and pretty soon you won't 
have to shake down your shady room- 
mate for taco or entertainment cash. 




Obama commencement 
creates controversy 



By Amanda Hoffstrom 

U-WIRE 



The pick of President Barack 
Obama to give Notre Dame's 
commencement speech and 
receive an honorary Doctor of Laws 
degree in May has sparked controver- 
sy betiveen Catholic groups, students, 
the university's administration and the 
White House. 

Though Notre Dame's President 
John lenkins said Obama's invitation 
should not be seen as "condoning or 
endorsing his positions on specific is- 
sues regarding the protection of life," 
Catholic groups locally and nationally 
have condemned the decision. 

The Cardinal Newman Society, 
a group dedicated to strengthening 
Catholic identity at America's Catholic 
colleges and universities, launched a 
Wob site that includes an online peti- 
tion against Obama's speech. The peti- 
tion had 197,000 signers, as of Saturday 
morning. 

Joseph Scheidler, director of the 
Pro-Ljfe Action League and a Notre 
Dame alumnus, lold Notre Dame's stu- 
dent newspaper and UWIRE affiliate. 
The Observer, the university's decision 
is "an insult lo all Notre Dame stands 
for." The Chicago-based Pro-Life Ac- 
tion League issued a news release Fri- 
day asking lenkins to withdraw his in- 
vitation lo Obama. 

Scheidler said he plans to protest 

, during the months before Obama's 

commencement speech and on gradu- 



ation day outside Notre Dame's loyce 
Center, where the speech will take 
place. 

Reactions from Notre Dame stu- 
dents about Obama's speech have 
been positive and negative. 

While some students have formed 
Facebook groups in support of Jenkins' 
decision, others joined a coalition of 
student groups that has used the In- 
ternet to denounce the university's 
choice. The coalition includes Notre 
Dame Right lo Life, Notre Dame Col- 
lege Republicans and the Irish Rover 
student newspaper, among others. 

In response to the controversy, the 
White House released a statement that 
said Obama welcomes the "spirit of de- 
bate and healthy disagreement on im- 
portant issues." 

"While he is honored to have the 
support of millions of people of all 
faiths, including Catholics witli their 
rich tradition of recognizing the dig- 
nity of people, he does not govern vnth 
the expectation that everyone sees eye 
lo eye vrith him on every position," the 
White House statement said. 

lenkins told The Observer that 
Obama "honored' the university by 
accepting ihe invitation and encour- 
aged the visit lo be used to stimulate 
dialogue. 

"We are not ignoring the critical 
issueof the protection of life. On the 
contrary, we invited him because we 
care sojnuch about those issues, and 
we hope... forthis tobeihebasisofan 
engagement with him," Jenkins said. 



IPFW 

%. March S-11 2009 



5 Systems Engineering 9 
Symposium: "A Cognitive 
Approach to System Design, 
Invention, and Decision Making," 
Dr. Kathfyn W. Jabiokov*^, The 
Pennsylvania Slate University; 

KT 646,8-11:30 a.m. RSVP to 
IPFWSysEng@iphv,edu- iq 

Express Lane Drop-in Career 
Counseling: KT 109, noon- 
2 p.m. Call 10689. 
Study 'Abroad Information 
Session: KT 245, 4-5 p.m. 11 
Call 16494. 

Concert: Symphonic Wind 
Ensemble with guesi, Leo High 
■ School Band; Rhinehart Music 
Center, 7:30 p.m. Call 16555 lor 
ticket infomiation. 

6 Athletics Event: Men's 
Volleyball vs. Pacitic, GC. 7 p.m. 
Call 10729. 

7 Athletics Event: Men's 
Volleyball vs. Pacific, GC, 7 p.m. 
Call 10729. 

8 Remnant Trust at IPFW CATV 
Series: 'Religious Revoltjlions," 
CATV 5, Verizon channel 30, 
and Comcast channel 5, 

5:30 p.m. 



Spring Recess Begins: 

Continues through March 15. 
Windsong Film Festival: 
The Boyhood of Abraham 
Lincoln— The Making of the 
Man, NF 101, 6:30 p.m. For 
information, call 260-348-5510. 
Windsong Film Festival: 
The Spirit of Abraham Lincoln 
and Little Snow White, W^0^, 
6:30 p.m. For infomiation, call 
260-348-5510. 
Career Services Workshop: 
"Job Search Strategies in a Tight 
Economy," free workshop for 
IPFW alumni; WU Ballroom. 

11 a.m.-l p.m. For reservations, 
call 10689. 

Remnant Trust at IPFW Film 
Series; Romero, Cinema 
Center, 437 E. Berry, 6:30 p.m. 
Free admission. 
Windsong Film Festival: 
Selection of international films, 
NF 101, 6:30 p.m. Film on March 

12 is Forever Strong. For 
information, call 260-348-5510, 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Part Time Route Salespeople 

Tyjeeded in Fort Wayne area. Established local company is 
1 V looking for a Route Salesperson for 1 to 2 days per iveek 
during school year and full titne during summer break. Tliis 
is a great part time job that can be flexible with your schedide. 
We are looking to train hardworking depenelable people. 

Please call to set up an interview at (260)'483-4203 



April 1, 



perspective 



pg.4 




April 1,2009 



perspective 



pg. 5 



The Communicator takes in several awards at 52nd ICPA event 




First Place • Best Overall Design 



Re-Use it witli 'Trasii to 
Treasure' Art Contest 



,ByJ(elly McLeiidon-._ 

-^kellymclcndoneiplmcom ntimlcafa r.oi 



After a one year hiatus, the staff of The 
Communicalor returned to the Indiana Collegiate 
Press Association convention; this past weekend held 
on Indiana University's Bloomington campus. 

The newspaper took homeeight awards in Division 
II, for non-daily papers at schools with enrollment of 
2.000 or more students. 

The biggest award for The Communicator was a 
first place in Best Overall Design for the October 29, 
2008 Presidential Election issue. 

"Clean design, good use of white space and 
creative caricatures." said one undisclosed judge of 
ilie first place entry. "It's an easy to read paper and 
not over-produced." 

The "Blue City" basketball preview special 
111/ 12/08} took diree awards. Graphic Designer Aaron 
Greene took first and third place awards for the cover 
of the preview special in Best Special Section Cover/ 
Front and Best Illustration respectively. Greene and 
Managing Editor Dan Vance also received third place 
in Best Stand Alone/ Pullout Section for "Blue City." 

Vance also took home first place in Best 
Informational Graphic I'MfVA Tournament" - 
4/16/08) and a pair of second place finishes in 
Best Spons News Story ("Simon's Wea\nng Road " - 
4/09/08) and Best Sports Column ("Tin Caps? Well, 
it could be worse" - 10/08/08). A first place was also 
awarded to former photographer HanNguyen in ffest 
News Photo ("Candlelight Vigil" --'04/16/08). 

Among the other events during the convention 
was a keynote address by Eric Deegans, a media critic 
for the St. Petersburg Times. 



Hana's Thoughts 

By HanaAl'HawBsh 

hana.hawash@ipfwcommunicatar.org 

worried about the eating liabits and 
overall health of a friend 



An old sa^ang goes, "one man's trash is another 
man's treasure." In Allen County, trash can indeed 
be treasure, with the Allen County Waste Watcher's 
"Trash-to-Tteasure Art Contest." On Saturday, April 
18 at Science Central, Allen County residents will 
gather (o submit their works of an, which are required 
to be made out of 100 percent discarded materials, 
including garbage or recyclables. 

Those interested in participating should go 
to http;// www.acwaslewatcher.org to fill out an 
applicatiol^. f hi? entry deadline is on Friday, April 10. 
The contest is a great opportunit&gt;' to use old items 
you would have just thrown away, as well as to design 
an interesting piece of aruvork. The contest is open 
to all ages and there \vill be prizes for winners in five 
different age groups. 



iDnMrni'MJiiMirMnDnDfti 
iDciflirnooiiMiRTnD'no/^. 




QUEST10N:DearHana, 
I have a friend that is con- 
cerned about losing weight fast. 
She is a model and her body is 
thin but very well proportioned. 
She told us she will consume no 
more Uian 500 calories per day if 
that. Now my friend is only eat- 
ing yogurt and calorie-free pop- 
corn, She works out everyday 
and also takes vitamins... she will ■ 
sometimes drink vodka, she.said' 
it helps her skip dinner. I am very 
concerned about her health and 
feel tike she is not getting good 
nutrition. Is there a healthy alter- 
native I could suggest to her or do 
you think this is heahhy? I do not 
know if I am overreacting. It up- 
sets me [hat models do diis and 
make other people like my friend 
feel self-conscious. Also, how do 
you feel about the media giving 
these diet tips everyday? 

ANSWER:! would like to begin 
by saying that the media has a 
huge impact on society. The view 
that we have about perfection 
from the media starts when we 
are young children. Think about 
your favorite Disney movie; miire 
was The Little Mecmaid. Think 
about the main character. Arte/. 
She had fuL, long, gorgeous hair 
and a tiny waisl comparable to 
her enormous chest and hips- 
She was, to her creators mind,^ 
a vision of perfection. Then we 
grow up and look at older role 
models from Hollyivood in their 
twenties and thirties with their. 
perfect bodies. 

It is great thai America can- 
be represented by such beauti- 




ful people, but it does not repre- 
sent all of America. If your friend 
wants to be thin, that is a person- 
al choice. There is nothing wrong 
with being thin, but it is not tlie 
most important thing in your life. 
The media should be encourag- 
ing only healthy lifestyles, not 
ouirogeous diets. 

Now, dieting can be gone 
about in one of two of ways. We 
have healthy dieting and un- 
healthy dieting. Healdiy dieting 
could be cutting back on certain 
foods like carbohydrates and 
sugars, decreasing proportions, 
eating organic foods and bal- 
anced or small meals diroughout 
the day... things like that. Then 
there are unhealthy diets or crash 
diets. 

These diets are meant to help 
a person lose weight rapidly and 
include starviiig oneself, eating 
only a certain thinglike water and 
crackers, or eating an amount of 
calories too little to support an 
.active lifestyle. 

Unhealthy diets can lead to 
things, like anorexia or bulimia. 
Wlien you are doing one of these 
two things, you do nqt even real- 
ize thai ysuare doing something 
lajrihly dangteroiis. if you, the 
reader, happen to be doing one 
of these things, let me ask you a 
question; are you literally d)ing 
to be thin? 

According to an article written 
by Gina Shaw found on http:// 
webmd. com, a trusted medical 

■ information website, "Between 

■ five and 20 percent of people who 
develop the disease lanorexta 
nervosa) eventually die from It... 



the disorder can damage almost 
every body system." 

Now. I am not saying that 
your friend has anorexia, but it 
can develop from these diet hab- 
its if it has no already developed. 
1 suggest you tell your friend to 
do some research. Boring I know, 
but necessary so that she can 
learn about some new ways to eat 
and figure out what is healthy for 
her body If she is already thin, 
you should help her realize this. 
If diis does not help, suggest new 
way for her to lose weight. 

The simplest way to lose 
weight and what seems to be a 
good choice for your friend is lo 
eat small, healthy meals through- 
out the day Tty things like grilled 
chicken and a vegetable or salad, 
and water (she cannot complain 
about water, it will help her be 
healthy in every way and has no 
■.(Jelorjfts).^.', 

■^, Also, -ihaybe she should try 
joining a sport or taking an activ- 
ity class like aerobics or kick box- 
ing. This -would help by firstly, 
taking her mind off of this obses- 
sion 10 be thin for a few hours and 
secondly it would help her get the 
excercise she wants. Remember, 
we are in college. These precious 
years should be spent enjoying 
our young life and learning, not 
obsessing over weight and looks. 



April 1, 2009 



arts &amp; entertainment 




In what has got lo be Ihe complete antithesis of Michael Israel's live 
art touring stage show that visited the Scottish Rite Auditorium a little 
over a year ago, the perfcrmers and visual artists of Radab: An Experi- 
ment In Live Art are a troupe least likely lo appeal to a mass audience. 
This is a compliment. Whereas Israel's show consisted of flinging fisifuls 
of paint at an oversized canvas to the tune of lock Jams Vol. 2 to pmduce, 
admittedly, impressive images to the likes of limi Hendrix and Muham- 
mad All. The Ratlab participants take their an with a side of outcast. The 
mbcture of graffiti artists, a rapper, an illustrator, a spoken word practi- 
tioner, and a foul-mouthed one-man band is a litde more volatile and 
dangerous than painting a portrait of Ali !o"Pump Up The Jams." 

Radab: An Experiment In Live Art is a mixed media production 
bringing together some of the area's finest "on the outskirts" artists, both 
audible and visual, to create art live on stage and for a good cause. The 
pairings of graffiti artist Mike Shifflect and rapper Sankofa, artist Josh 
Angel and one-man band Poopdeflex, and illustrator Matt McClure and 
tale spinner John Commorato Jr. ivill each have one hour to intertwine 
their various artistic outpuis. The social experiment will be taking place 
in the Tiger Room at Calhoun Street Soups, Salads, &amp; Spirits from 7 p.m. 

IPFW Visual Arts Gallery 

Spring Senior B.F.A. Exhibition - Fine Arts I 



10 10 p.m. on Saturday, April 
4. All attendees will be granted 
free admission lo the Brass Rail for ilie after party and a performance by 
Chicago's Mike Maimone &amp;The Muits with locaisThe Orange Opera and 
Definitely Gary. The event will only cost $2 to attend. Proceeds from die 
door and from a silent auction of donated art, gear from RISE skate shop, 
and ihe pieces created by the visual artists diat night will be going to the 
Boys &amp; Girls Club of Fort Wayne. 

Ratlab curator, and registered beard owner, Josef Zimmerman, ex- 
plains the choice of charitable contribution thusly, "I just try lo keep ev- 
erything local and I want to try and support as many things as I can with- 
in the community^When it comes to cdmm unity- wide organizations, it 
was one of the first one's that popped into my head. A lot of people I 
know rely on the Boy &amp; Girls for help for their children and everythingi'd 
heard has always been positive. " 

Zimmerman, along with silent partner and staff photographer Danie! 
"Dongo ' Dieneli, carefully handpicked tlie performers from the immedi- 
ate area. "I found the artists and then asked diem who they wanted to 
work with. 1 didn't want ro go ail milk and orange juice on it and pair up 



someone with their polar opposite," he 
Of the performers, Sankofa is prot 
rapped for a long lime, long enough th 
it anyway," he says of his origins. The 
Bands rurmer-up has been busy with hi 
only set back by a crashed hard drive ih 
fun with music and I give it away for fr 
pressing CDs." 

Paired widi Sankofa is graffiti artist t 
Graffiti can be a polarizing art form, bi 
taught early on what locations were at 
wasn't, like Zesto's," he says of the unt 
town. "My work is considered graffiti ar 
into it, which is pretty much a Europe, 
a lot of traditional hip-hop artists who 
stricdy bombing, illegal style, which 1 c 
I like to include into the graffiti." Be ass 
latedforShifflelt'ssei. 
k Ratlab: PageB 




eGn CCo^tadDar 



By Peter Schnellenberger 



The gianc brass instrumenl sits 
on his lap. his arms wrap around 
ii, as if cradling a child. His fin- 
gers sit on the valves, wailing lo 
begin. His lips pressed against the 
mouthpiece, his eyes meet with the 
conductor's hands, longing for the 
signal. As (he conducior's hands 
come alive, Zach Kohlmeier blows 
into tlie tuba, issuing forth the rich 
undertone of the symphony. 

Zach Kohlmeier is a junior and 
music education major at IPFW. His 
ultimate goal is to receive a master's 
degree in luba performance. He 
has been playing the luba for eight 
years and has been with the IPFW 
ivind ensemble for the pasi three. 
Kohlmeier performs about seven 
different limes a year with various 
ensembles. 

Kohlmeier chose to study music 
because it's what he loves. "With- 
out music, life would be bland," 
Kohlmeier said. "Music is every- 
where. Even the cars on the street 
I add rhydim," He started lo play 
luba with his high school marchini; 



band and kept with it ever since. "I 
liked the sound of ihe instrument; 
a beautiful low tone adds a great 
foundation to the band," Kohlmei- 
er said, 

Kohlmeier enjoys every one of 
his performances and mentions, 
"every performance is memorable 
and ihey all offer different oppor- 
tiiniiies." Hovvever, his favorite 
performance was last year when 
he had the pleasure of playing un- 
der Ray Cramer, former Director 
of Bands at Indiana University in 
Bloomington. 

Kohlmeier was recently selected to 
play in a national inler-colligaie en- 
semble in Texas. He will be playing 
under Ihe world famous Virginia 
Allen, who taught at both luilliard 
and The Curtis Inslituie of Music in 
Philadelphia. 

Some of Kohlmeier's favorite 
performers include: Oysten Baads- 
vak, James Gourlay and Patt Sheri- 
dan. "The person 1 would have 
loved to perform under would be 
Leonard Bernstein, but he's dead 
now," Kohlmeier Said. 

He finds inspiration in pushing 
himself to do better, and also by 



and teaching music. 

His favorite music genres to per- 
form are classical and jazz. Wlien 
listening to music, he chooses al- 
ternative and classic rock. "Classic 
rock has a bluesy feel which goes 
back lo jazz, " Kohlmeier said. 

Kohlmeier is currently learn- 
ing 10 play Ralph Vaughn William's 
Concerto for tuba and orchestra. 




Roommate's Pick 

House of Heroes 



someone with their polar opposite," he says of Ihe eventual pairings. 

Of the performers, Sankofa is probably the most high profile. "I've 
rapped for a long time, long enough that I'm too old to rap. But 1 still do 
ii anyway," he says of his origins. The one-time Whatzup Batde of the 
Bands runner-up has been busy with his series of free recording projecls, 
only set back by a crashed hard drive that erased months of work. "I have 
fun with music and i give it away for free because it's cheap and it beats 
pressing CDs." 

Paired widi Sankofa is graffiti artist and aerosol wizard, Mike Shifflelt. 
Graffiti can be a polarizing art form, but Shifflett knows the rules, "I was 
taught early on what locations were acceptable to work at and where it 
wasn't, like Zesto's," he says of the unfortunate tagging he sees all over 
town. "My work is considered graffiti art, but I like to incorporate realism 
into it, which is pretty much a European thing. It doesn't go along with 
a lot of Uadiiional hip-hop artisis who like to keep il New York based or 
stricdy bombing, illegal style, which I don't mind. 1 have olher elemenis 
I like to include into the graffiti." Be assured, the room will be well venti- 
lated for Shiffleit's set, 
&gt; Ratlab: Pages 



By Mark Cox 

Before 1 came across this album, I doubted 
that there would be a band that could pro- 
duce the same sound as Wcezer could in 
most of their songs, but House of Heroes does jusi 
that. Don't get me wrong, some of their songs sound 
nothing like Weezer. but there are a few. Tracks such 
as 'Buckets for Bullet Wounds' and 'Pulling Back the 
Skin' from their self-tilled album have a fair resem- 
I blance of Weezer, but wlhout the sarcasm and bi- 
[ zarre lyrics. 

i House of Heroes is an alternative rock band from 
I Columbus, Ohio. Starting in 2002, their former band 
■ being a punk band, NoTagbacks. changed their name 
I to House of Heroes and overhauled their sound, re- 
I fleeting their new start with new music and dieir 
I groivn perspectives. House of Heroes has been seen 
i touring with Belieni K, Rufio and MXPX. Becendyre- 
! cording a music video with Endeavor Media, House 
of Heroes will soon be releasing the video as well as a 
j Beatles cover albuni this year. 
' Listening to this band is different from most d- 
I bums I've listened to in awhile. They have a unique 
sound and the way Ihey piece their songs together is 




Wounds"'- about human corruption and how money, 
as well as polilics. drives our lives, 'Serial Sleepers' 
[a call to wake up in life and nol be asleep as if fell- 
ing into monotony of life) aiid "Pulling Back the Skin*, 
which is about an ended relationship in which the 
singer does nol want liis ex back, however, he doesn't 
want her with another guy. 




Make sure to check out www.ipfmcommunicator.org for information 
regarding tlie upcoming Spring Senior B.F.A. Exiiibitions. 



April 1, 2009 



arts &amp; entertainment 




^Ratiab 

From Page 6 

A seemingly ever-present force of art in Fort Wayne, 
John Commorato Jr. wilt be performing several spo- 
ken word pieces for Rallab. Right now he is focused on 
his main piece entitled, Barry Bender Adventures In 
Doppleganging. "It's a low calorie narrative, not much 
filler," he says. Commorato is really happy to be in- 
volved with a project like this. "I'm looldng forward to 
working with Josef and Dongo on a mixed media proj- 
ect like this," hey says. "I've got a great relationship 
with Dongo and I always wanted to work ivitli Josef." 

Partnering with Commorato's spoken word will be 
cartoonist/ illustrator Malt McClure. Though his st^'le 
uses alotof hard lines, he doesn't want to be pigeon- 
holed as just a cartoonist. "My work is, for lack of a 
belter term, carloony," he says. 'It's cartoony with a 
narrative based in alternative dark realism with a lot 
of whimsy. " 

The other elusive pairing of one-man dirt&gt;' blues- 
man Scott "Poopdeflex" Snyder (out on tour with Left 
Lane Cruiser at the time of this writing) and artist 
extraordinaire losh Angel might be the most intrigu- 
ing grouping of the event. If memor)' serves correctly, 
Snyder has never had to play a set longer than a half 
an hour and his cantankerous Poopdefiex alter-ego 
might find that hour set time as a chance to chide ev- 
eryone in the room. There's no telling what his stage 
partner might cook up. Angel is probably the most 
rounded artist of the lot. Wlien reached for comment, 
Angel simply says, "I'm Josh Angel. I do art." It will 
probably be a little more complicated than that. 

An event this diverse and benefiting to tlie com- 
munity would be a terrible thing to miss out on. Push - 
ing the boundaries of what a show can be is an experi- 
ment, an art project in itself. Attendees should feel .i^- 
though they are a part of something bigger tlian luit 
an audience. RingleaderZimmerman concludes, "Ini 
trying to do something different, trying to bring peo- 
ple that might know Sankofa's work, but not Mike's or 
Josh's, out to experience different things. I don't know . „. , , , , . 

if it'll mKwell.who's going to show, who's not going to THE RAT PACK: From left to right, Mike Shifflet, Matt McClure, Josh Angel, Josef Zimmerman, 
show, but 1 think it'll be very fun." John Commorato Jr., PooptJeflex and Sankofa. 



PRIVATE LIVING 



\[pm 



w 


^ 








^Hl 


■u^-'' 


'fljll 




Jul 


i?( ■ 1 


iB| 



rirtf^ ' ■ 



WAbK^TOyCLASS 



NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
FOR FALL HOUSING 

^ IPFW student Housing '^^': 

. 260.481.4180 • 4110 CRESCENT AVE • IPFW I" HOUSINGCOM 



April 1,2009 Sports 



pg. 9 



Gottschall taking steps to his dream 

■ Senior shortstop is leading the way on offense for the 6-14 Mastodons and looking to continue progressing towards a career 



By Monica Gerdeman 

■nonica.gerdeman@iphvcamniunicator.arg 



Finishing 2008 with a .330 baiting 
average to lead the team and hi tting.354 
so far in 2009, senior Chris Gottschall 
has every intention of wanting to 
continue playing baseball after his last 
season here at IPFW. 

Gottschall's athletic journey started 
out in his home town of O'Fallon, 
Illinois. His father Michael was a 
volleyball nationa] champion at UCLA 
and his mother Karen- an All-American 
gymnast. Gonschall grew up with three 
older brothers and two sisters, who 
were all interested in anything other 
than baseball, hiscead, hockey was the 
major sport in his family growing up. 

Laughing as he told a story about 
his mother buying him his oivn ice 
skates so he too could play hockey like 
his brothers, he admits thai the untold 
part of the story is that his skales remain 
unused to this day, and that's how he 
realized his love for sport wasn't for 
hockey, but started at the age of three 
for a much different sport. 

That love continued to grow through 
the years. 

"Everykid had a funny story groiving 
up, andl wouldsaymine had tobe when 
I was in the fifth grade. 1 was on second, 
bases loaded and before 1 could make 
it to third, 1 tripped on my shoe laces 
two or three times. The worst part was 
it wasn't )ust a trip but a face plant," 
Gottschall said. 

Gottschall played every chance 



he could until his hope came to a 
screaming halt when he didn't make 
his junior high baseball team. 

"Making the junior high team is 
usually a big part of playing in high 
school. I love baseball. It's what I've 
always wanted to do and 1 knew I wasn't 
going to quit, " Gottschall said. 

Gottschall didn't let the absence 
of the game stop his dreams. He 
continued playing summer and league 
ball and during the sunmier between 
his eighth and ninth grade years, he was 
able to play in Europe at a tournament 
in Kumo, Poland; the home of the Little 
League World Series. 

Starting high school the following 
school year, he made the freshman 
team with ease. He played mosdy 
hrst base, and during his second year, 
started to play musical positions a 
hit by trying second, third, shortstop, 
catcher and outfield. His senior year, 
he was named ICA All-State. 

Not only did Gottschall play baseball 
but he was also a ivrestler and an 
outstanding vocalist in his high school 
choir. 

"Being in the choir helped me with 
the team side of things in baseball. 
Because in a choir, if one person 
doesn't sound good, you're going to 
hear it," Gottschall said. 
■ He started his college career before 
coming to IPFW with teammate 
Brandon Knowling at Kaskaskia College 
in Centralia, Illinois. Both transferred 
to IPFW and were recruited by the 
previous coach Billy Gemon, 

At Kaskaskia, Gotchall was named 




ABOVE: Gottschall leads off in the 
home opener with Toledo. He is a 
perfect 3-for-3 in steals this year. 

RIGHT: He leads the team in hits, 
RBI, doubles and homeruns. 

Rookie of the Year in 2006 after posUng- 
a .347 batting average with 34 RBI and 
13 doubles. 

Gottschall says his worst memories 
of baseball are his injuries. 

"It was the ninth inning, and we 
were playing Vermont College in 
Florida (in 2008). I went to tiim the 
double play and the player sliding into 
second kicked my leg. I ended up with a 
fractured fibula, but it was a successful 
double play," Chris explained with a 
smile of his only major injury at IPFW. 

Currently, Gottschall is leading 
IPFW in six-of-seven major batting 
catagories for the season. 




As midseason approaches, the 
ending of being a 'Don is nearing for 
Gottschall. but he leaves with upbeat 
thoughts of bigger and better things. 

"Every Idd dreams about playing 
in the big leagues and mine are no 
different." 




April 1, 2009 






Sports 



pg.lO 









i*i^ 





Misconceptions and 
misadventures at IPFW 



story By Dan Vance 

clan.vance@tpfwcoinmunicator.org 



"ll looked like something I didn't want to do," 
resonates a near six-year old thought of DeWitt 
Scott. 

Much like (as he'll tell you), when he opted to 
participate in the Mad Ants' open tryout last Fall, 
the DeWitt Scott out of high school never saw option 
as a very plural word. Of his two scholarship offers 
coniing from the prestigious Whitney Young in 
Chicago, one was from IPFW. And as Scott has clearly 
let known, this was not something he wanted to do 
and not a place he wanted 
to be. Instead, Scott opted 
to attend the historically 
African American college 
Maryland Eastern Shore. 

■'At 17, living in Chicago 
my entire life and coming 

10 Fort WajTie and seeing IPFW, It was really a culture 
shock," Scott says matter- of-facily, now-absent of 
that usual grin. "IPFW honestly kind of scared me. It 
(UMES) was closer to the life I lived my entire life." 

Unfortunatly for Scott, the social scenery of UMES 
was not the only thing familiar to him. After playing 
in 22 of the team's 26 games as a true freshman, near 

11 minutes per, his coach Thomas Trotter did not 
receive a contract extension. He also experienced the 
slight of a dismissed coach-just before his senior year 
of high school. 

So with little other choice, DeWitt Scott had to 
put his misconceptions behind him. With no other 
school's interest, he picked up the phone and made { 
what turned out to be] the most important call of his 



Far the third part of ttii 
story of DeWitt Scott dieck 
Dirt neitt week's issue of The 
Communicator. 




life. On the other end was a sympathetic Noll, who 



knew how this story ends. Without ever touching 
the floor in an IPFW uniform. Scott was now seeing 
Noll being released from the university. Within two 
months, Dane Fife would take over for interim coach 
loe Pechota. Fife would becoine Scott's sixth coach in 
just three years. 

tually thought, 'I must be a curse. Everywhere 



agreed to look past Scotts unwitting mistake and ' 8°' "'V ""''«' f ""''■ 5"" ™l' '=" y"- ^ 
Scott was enrolled at IPFW for the 2004-2005 season. The Dane Fife experiment was one that the 

"L credit Coach Noll alot and I thank him because maiority otlhe cityotForl Wayne was lookingforward 

if It wasn't for him,] would ha.e never played a game '°°' f* """= '» ""= university still pretty fresh off 

at IPFW and 1 probably wouldn't be playing pro '"'''"8 ■"'liani' University to a Nauonal Title game 

basketball now" Scott says. " in 2002 and his addition to the program was expected 

Upon ioining the team and coaches on campus, lo boost attendance and recruiting. But Scott saw the 

many of Scotts misconceptions about the program "Ihet sule of the experiment- he saw the fear of the 

were quelched. The biggiisl of which being the 6"&gt;™ng unknown. 



ind approach for the 



"I actually thought, 'I must be 

a curse. Everywhere I go, my 

coaches get fired.'" 



expected tow-Division I &lt; 

smaller school. While 

Scott learned that 

wasn't the case with 

Noll, and later Dane 

Fife, he also spent that 

first year trying to get 

over one of his biggest 

paranoia's about ' 

IPFW- fitting it, while 

also sitting out his first season in compliance with 

NCAA rules. 

"I didn't think I would fit in initially and now I 
came knowing I had to (it in while not playing," Scott 
notes of his redshirt season. "You know, I'm going to 
have a tot more time on my hands lo not fit in." 

Little did Scott know, things were about to get 
worse. 

On January 13, 2005, then-iPFW Athletic Director 
opened a press conference inside the Milliard 



The very first day of oncourt work with Fife, Scott 
says, the two got into 
a somewhat heated 
discussion. 

"He (FifeJ always 
tells me that he was 
very close to sending 
me home. And he sent a 
lot of guys home," Scott 
recalls. 



Fife in fact sent four players packing, choosing 
not to renew the scholarships of Jason Malone, 
Byron Malone, Quintin Butler and Charles Campbell. 
Likewise, Andrew Bourne and would-be returning 
scorers Beau Bauer and Pete Campbell chose 
themselves to leave for less lurbulant pastures. 

"This is looking very iffy right now, ' Scott says with 
an almost nervous chuckle of his mindframe in the 
spring of 2005. "It was looking kind of rough at that 
lime. We are already behind, we have new coaches 
SportkenVeV^'th'thephTasi^'mTdecisronlT^^^^ ''"'' ^ "^^^ ^y^'^""- ^^ '^'='' T^'^ Campbell) was 
been mulling over for weeks and weeks." gomg to be our returmng leading scorer, this could 

He didn't have lo finish, DeWitt Scott already B'^'^E'V- 




Photos by Lucas Carter (left) and Eugene Harding (above) 

IPFW: During his sophotnore catnpaign, Scott 
hit 70-of-158 three point attempts. He scored 
a team high 1 4.2 points/gatne on his way to 
IniJependent 1st and Newcomer team honors. 



But as ugly as it could get, it really didn't. Instead 
the program itself found a bright spot in Scott who 
saw himself as just a role player going into his first 
actual season with IPFW. Instead, his talent exploded. 
Months after being on the edge of being sent home 
by his new coach, Scott found himself in the starting 
lineup for all 28 games. 

On top of that, Scott scored a career high 26 points 
on November 23, 2005 against Valparaiso, scored 20 or 
more points on six other occassions, was consistently 
ranked high nationally in three pointers made and 
ended the season named to the All-Independent First 
Team. 

Finally, after many misadventures that led to his 
on court debut, IPFW was not only starting to feel 
good to Scott- it was starting to feel like home. 



April 1, 2009 



Sports 



pgn 



Softball team sweeps home opening series 




By Monica Gerdeman 

monlca.getdemaneipfwcammunicatar.arg 

The IPFW Mastodons came in strong lo face the 
JaguarsoflUPUI. Starting Friday afternoon, the Lady 
'Dons took the field in the first, allowing little slack 
for a change. IPFW ended their first inning vvitb two 
hits and forced three errors. The Lady 'Dons started 
to hit a stride in the second, scoring their first run as 
Beatrice Pedraza stroll across the plate. lUPUl didn't 
get on the board until the fourth and that made the 
score 4-1. The Jaguars wouldn't score again until the 
fifth, which would also end their drive to victory and 
theu- gain at two. IPFW finished the game with a 



walk off in the seventh inning, ending game one 7-2. 
Rachel Staschuk led the team in hits with three and 
the RBI category was owned by Pedraza with two. 

Game two on Friday was a Mastodon shut out 5-0. 
IPFW pitcher Rachel Staschuk allowed only tivo hits, 
and finished the win. 

The Lady 'Dons woke up on Saturday morning 
to bowls full ofWheaties and once again were able 
to shut out iUPUI. It's only been done three times 
vvithin the last seven years of Division I play that 
IPFW had back-to-back shutouts. The game was 
finished in five with the final score recorded at 8-0. 
Kristina Karpun led the team uith three hits and two 
RBI. IPFW resumes play Wednesday, April 1 ai home 
taking on Eastern Michigan ai 3 and 5 pm. 




Photos by Monica Gerdeman (above, bottom right) and Lucas 
Carter (immediate right , bottom left) 

ABOVE: Courtney Cronin throws a pitch in 
game one of Friday's double header. Cronin 
gave up two runs on four hits in her win Friday. 

TOP RIGHT: Freshman Kaylee Faurote takes a 
lead from third base in a game on Friday. 

BOTTOM LEFT: Amanda Olender connects with 
a pitch against the Jaguars. The sophomore 
from New Jersey scored Rachel Stachuk on a 
groundout in Friday's opener against IUPUI. 

BOTTOM RIGHT: Cringing as she moves her 
glove up, Kristina Karpun catches a pitch on 
Friday. Karpun was l-for-2 in Friday's opener 
with a RBI and on Monday was named Summit 
League Player of the Week. 




IPFW can't sustain lead over EIVA foe 



The Mastodons jumped out to an 
early lead on Saturday, but couldn't 
sustain as the Patriots of George 
Mason stormed back for a 3-1 (28-30, 
30-19, 30-27, 30-24} victor&gt;'. 

Kyle Gramit dominated, much as 
he did in first meeting of the teams 
earlier this season. In Saturday's 
match, the senior had 28 kills and six 
digs, but also has seven individual 
service errors. 

IPFW never trailed past a 5-7 
deficit in the opening game and 
finished the Patriots off on kills from 
Phil Peterson and Oliver Kook. 

Game two was totally different 
with IPFW struggling after the 5-4 
lead. Ryan Kwiatkowski led the way 
for George Mason in game two. 

Gramit was back on top in 
game three, but a iate service error 
opened up IPFW's hopes for a win, 
UnfortunaUy. a Shaun Sibley kill and 
service error by IPFW's Jonathan 
Meyer ended the Mastodon hopes. 

Ben Duckworth and Kook each 
knocked down 12 kills, while Darryl 
Shank had 10. On the defensive side. 



Duckwortli had 11 digs while Kook 
had nine block assists. 

Eric Lucas dug up 16 balls for 
George Mason. 

The loss dropped IPFW to iO- 
10 on the year after briefly jumping 
above .500 on Friday night in a 3-2 
win over Rutgers -Newark (28-30, 30- 
23,30-23,28-30, 15-13). 

The Scarlet Raiders had three 
players with double-digit kills, but 
Darryl Shank exploded with 23 kills 
on the match. 

The Mastodons were on point 
with iheirservice, notching nine aces 
in the match. Kook led the team with 
three, while Shank, Duckworth and 
Phil Peterson each had nvo. 

TheMasidons return to action this 
weekend at Gates against Quincy at 7 
pm Friday and 3 pm on Saturday. 



SERVICE: Ben Duckworth had 

one ace against George Mason 

on Saturday night. 



Photo by Moniu Gerdeman 




SoKScm(3l27msiK.mi j 


Gamel 


AB 


R 


H BBI ] 


Mastodons 


33 


7 


to 6 j 


Jaguars 


22 


2 


' ' \ 


Game 2 


AB 


R 


H RBI 


Mastodons 


25 


5 


7 4 


Jaguars 


23 





2 


Game 3 


AB 


R 


H RBI 


Mastodons 


22 


8 


10 6 


Jaguars 


19 





5 



T'*r 




;,&lt; 


"^ 




n 


■ 


^n 


1 




Dan Vance 
Managing Editor 



Kathryn Anderson 
Politics 8 Money 



Kristin Con ley 
Ad Manager 



WilbUnsn$UJIt215 
FtxlWjyne.lN «S05 



«601 481-6583 
adsSipftwDmniuoorofoig 




April 1, 2009 



Sports pg. 12 



Fife staying put despite some local rumors 



By Dan Vance 

dsn.vanreSiptwcommunicalor.Drg 

Put away those surprised faces aiid 
intruding questions, Dane Fife is going 
nowhere. 

Straight from the horses mouth, 
Fife ademanlly denies rumors that 
frustration within his position has led 
him to consider a resignation. 

Rumors began to pop up lasl week 
that Fife was considering leaving IPFW, 
even willi no school (outside of Wright 
State) mentioned In the rumors. Fife 
says that word that he wasn't returning 



phone calls or that he told a sports 
writer from a local newspaper about 
his frustrations are unfounded. 

"I'm not going anywhere. I 
haven't talked to anyone," Fife said 
last Thursday \'ia telephone from his 
current recruiting road trip. 

Fife also denies a rumor that he sent 
his resume to Brad Brownell. the Head 
Coach at Wright State. 

"I didn't even know he had an 
opening," Fife noted. 

On the contrary, Fife is in good 
spirits about the state of the program 
and his status with the university. 



Just two years ago, before IPFW ever 
played a game in a conference, Fife 
signed a contract extension with the 
university through 2013. 

"I am happy to be a T)on," Fife said. 
"Now we're just out on the recruiting 
trail so we can just keep upgrading a 
litde more. ' 

While Fife has not named any 
names, Scout.com reports he was in 
attendance at the March 20 lunior 
College Nationals in Hutchingson, 
Kansas. Fife also attended the Saturday, 
March 21 Indiana Semi-State game 
of Bloomington South High School to 



watch Eric Fromm according to the 
Bloomington Herald -Times. 

Fromm, a 6-8 junior, already 
has offers from IPFW and William &amp; 
Mary but claims interest from several 
schools, including Oregon, Penn State 
and Notre Dame. Fromm's Panther 
team has been ranked as high as third 
nationally this season by USA Today. 

This past Saturday, Fromm scored 
14 points as Bloomington South 
completed a,perfect 26-0 season with a 
Class 4A State Championship win over 
the Fort Wayne Snider High School 
Panthers. 




Walk-off RBI saves IPFW from sweep 



Photo by Lucas Carter / lucascarterphotography.cc 



HEAVER HITTER: Junior Mark Garden knocks one of his teanfi 
high three hits in Sunday's 12-11 win over LeMoyne. 



A six-run IPFW third 
inning was the early icing 
on a hot hitting day for 
IPFW Sunday as they topped 
LeMoyne College 12-11 in 
the hnale of a three-game 
weekend series. LeMoyne 
scored four runs in the ninth 
inning to tie the game, but 
IPFW scored once more on 
a walk-off Chris Gottschall 
single. 

Gottschall led the way 
with a pair of doubles and 
four RBI on the day. Mark 
Garden also had three hits in 
the game while loel Washko 
and Shaun VanDriessche 
each walked twice. 



The win for IPFW saved 
them from heingswept by the 
Dolphins, a Division II school 
that competes on a Division 
I level in just baseball and 
women's lacrosse. 

In Saturday's double 
header with the Dolphins, 
IPFW fell 3-1 and 3-2. 

IPFW hit sttong in the 
losses with nine in game one 
and out-hit LeMoyne 5-4 in 
the second game. LeMoyne 
scored runs two and three in 
the top of the 12th inning in 
game one. The first run came 
on a Sean Paino double, 
followed by another run on a 
fielder's choice. 



In the second game of the 
day, the Dolphins carried 
over their momentum from 
the game one I2th by scoring 
all three runs in the top of the 
first inning. 

After the first score came 
on apassed bidl, Chris Haynes 
singled in the next two runs. 
IPFW also scored one run 
in the first and again in the 
bottom of the sixth during 
the seven- inning game. 

IPFW got their lone RBI 
from VanDriessche. Their 
five hits in the game came 
from Jordan Kohler, Scott 
Micinski, VanDriessche, 

Garden and Gottschall. 



( 260) 49 0-5060 The New 




6Q40 Lima Rd. Ft. Wayne, IN 46818 



The Bar for 
all Generations! 



Wednesdavs! 



Karaoke 

$1.00 Longnecks 
$3.00 You Call It! 
$1.00 Food 
$1.00 Cover 
$2.50 ALL Bombs 



Fridays! Saturdays! 



LADIES SET 
IN FREE 

Set in FREE 
w/ a student ID 

ALL Bombs $2.50 



$2.50 X BOMBS 

6 shots just 
$1.50 each 

Sreat Live Bands 



Upcoming Concerts! 



Joe Diffie 



April 24th 



Bucky C6&gt;m°^ 



Steve Azar 



Eric Church 



May 2nd 



May 9th 

Adam Gregory Jamey Johnson 

June 6th July 18th 



