1985-86 

Student Handbook 

Inside 




Volleyball 

Coach Ball in Japan 
back page 



®t|E C0mmumi:at0r 



Vol. XVII Issue 1 



Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne 



August 19, 1985 



Guisti resigns, works 
on Education Act 




By JOHNETTE TOPLISEK 

Editor-in-Chief 

Joseph Guisti, who has been 
chancellor of IPFW for six years, 
has resigned. Guisti's resignation 
was effective as of August 1. 

Guisti has been on leave of 
absence from IPFW since Sep- 
tember 1984 in order to direct the 
Indiana Conference of Higher 
Education, a group of 39 public 
and private college represen- 
tatives making recom- 
memdations on the reauthoriz- 
ation of the Federal Higher 
Education Act of 1965. 

Guisti said in a telephone in- 
terview he has chosen to continue 
working on the reauthorization 
until it is secure because higher 
education is his professional 
field. 

"Also, IPFW needs a full-time 
leader at the helm," said Guisti. 
Guisti said he felt if he was to 
continue to work on the 
reauthorization, his resignation 
would open the position for 
chancellor and allow the 
presidents of Indiana University 
and Purdue University to 
organize a search and screen 



committee at their pleasure. 

"A search and screen com- 
mittee has not yet been 
organized," said Steve Beering, 
president of Purdue. A com- 
mittee will be organized 
sometime later this summer, he 
said. Edward Nicholson, vice 
chancellor of academic affairs, 
will continue as acting chancellor 
until a new, full-time chancellor 
is chosen. 

Beering said Guisti was sen- 
sitive to the community and 
community interaction, creating 
a sense of belonging and cohesion 
for the campus. 

Speaking for both the Indiana 
and the Purdue presidents, 
Beering said, "Both universities 
are pleased that Guisti has 
agreed to stay on to continue his 
important effort on behalf of 
Indiana colleges and universities 
for the reauthorization of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965." 

Although Guisti has resigned as 
chancellor, he will remain a 
member of the administration 
and faculty of IPFW. During the 
fall semester, he will continue 
monitoring the Act until it is 
reauthorized in Congress. But 
during the spring semester, 
Guisti, a professor of education, 
is expecting to teach two 
graduate courses in school ad- 
ministration. 

"I have not made a decision as 
of yet concerning my apphcation 
for the permanent chancellor's 
position," said Nicholson. But he 
did say he would be discussing 
the possibility with the presidents 
of Indiana and Purdue. 




During pre-registraUon, freshmen Sue Eytcheson and Kirk Barnes check out some textbook prices In 
Follett's bookstore. FoUett's Is located on the ground floor of Kettler Hall. (Photo by Lilly Lyon ). 

Program seeks volunteers 



Mature adults with time to 
share can discover new friends, 
grow intellectually, and use a 
lifetime's accumulation of skills 
through the Affiliate Staff 
program offered by Indiana 
University-Purdue University at 
Fort Wayne. 

This volunteer program places 
participants in non-paid, part- 
time jobs at the campus. It was 
designed to "highlight the 
wisdom of years in a positive 
sharing of abilities," said Pauline 
T. Flynn, coordinator and 
professor of audiology and 
speech sciences. 

Flynn also is campus coor- 
dinator for gerontology and 



places volunteers in the program. 

The 1984-85 academic year was 
the first year for the program, 
and volunteers monitored the 
division of music library, cared 
for materials in the Speech and 
Hearing Clinic, read to blind 
students, prepared mailings, and 
performed clerical tasks. 

IPFW faculty and staff 
responded warmly to the 
program last year, Flynn said. 
Consequently, more positions are 
available to volunteers this year. 

Affiliate Staff may also 
volunteer to: plan receptions, 
assist in faculty research 
projects, keypunch research 
data, label and sort archeological 



Vice President Miller outlines Senate's plans 



By LILLY LYON 
Copy Editor 

,The IPFW student govern- 
ment, headed by president Joe 
Motherwell, has started plans for 
the 1985-86 academic year. 

According to vice president 
Brad Miller, Senate has already 
began business for the fall 
semester. "Vice Chancellor 
Nicholson has already recognized 
our plans for the advising 
process," Miller said. Student's 
Government would like to change 
the advising process into a more 



uniform system to aid students 
more extensively as they plan 
their class schedules and work 
toward their degrees. 

Another issue that Student's 
Government is working on is 
campus growth. Having com- 
pleted their payments toward the 
bond on the campus tennis 
courts, they are ready for more 
plans to expand. 

Miller cited other plans for a 
program that would allow 
leaders of campus organizations 
to meet with Senate on a regular 



tiasis to discuss grievances zvd 
air problems. 

Revising the school con- 
stitution will be another item the 
government will touch on. 

"After the last elections." 
Miller commented, "revisions 
are necessary." In the Student's 
Government elections last 
spring, charges were filed by 
presidential candidates Bruce 
Walker and Clay Housholder 
against the election board. 
Walker and Housholder 
questioned the eligibiUty of the 



board and accused them of 
failure to properly mark boun- 
daries for campaigning near the 
voting table, which they main- 
tained was not properly attended. 

Other business includes the 
acquisitionof a popcorn machine 
for the Classroom-Medical 
Building, the redecoration of the 
Student's Government offices, 
and tighter control of keys to the 
office. 

Miller's own plans for the year 
include a community service 
project for work with local youth 



artifacts, tutor students, sew 
theatre costumes and paint 
scenery, prepare audiovisual 
aids, organize and repair Ubrary 
materials, and keep game 
statistics for intercollegiate 
athletics. 



"There is so much to be ac- 
complished here at IPFW. 
Volunteers offer us the much- 
needed commodity of time. We 
need many people who are 
willing to volunteer their time — 
any amount of time. I would be 
delighted to visit with anyone 
who might offer to help us," 
Flynn said. 



in the Fort Wayne area. "Many of 
these kids will be IPFW 
students,*' Miller noted, adding 
that the project will be similar to 
a discarded municipal program 
used by the city a few years ago. 
Miller would also like to see the 
addition of a sculling team to the 
athletics program. He adds that 
acting Chancellor Nicholson likes 
the idea, but Miller admitted it 
would be expensive. Sculling, he 
explains, is a form of competitive 
rowing. 



PAGE 2 — THE COMMIJNICATOR — MONDAY, AUG 19, 1985 

Part-time students 
charged service fee 



By LILLY LYON 
Copy Editor 

Students roistering for the fall 
semester at IPFW may have 
noticed that the student service 
fee has been changed. Former 
student body president, Don 
Gorney, said the change was 
decided upon by both Indiana and 
Purdue University officials 
during the past summer, and was 
put into affect beginning this fall 
semester. 

The fee, which was $20 for 
students carrying 12 or more 
credit hours, is now based on a 
ratio of $2.25 per credit hour with 
a maximum fee of $20. Graduate 
students are not charged a 
student service fee. 

The change in fees also allows 



£m. 



%^i0^ 



•MIx-lns 

•Sundae-In-A-Cone 

•MU'ln Milkshake 

•Flavored Soft Drinks 

•Banana Splits 

•Sundaes 

•Ice Cream Pies 

•Ice Cream Cake 

•Canvouts 





Oarden 

MaU 

Marketplace of 

Vi^anterbury 

486-0109 

Monday - Saturday 

11:00-10:00 
Sunday 12:00-9:00 



for part-time students to receive 
I.O. cards, thus entitling them to 
all the benefits full-time students 
have. These benefits include use 
of the campus athletic facilities, 
discounts at local businesses, and 
reduced admission prices to 
university athletics and Purdue- 
Indiana Theatre productions. 

"The more hours you take, the 
more time you spend on campus, 
so we felt the change in the fee 
was justified," Gorney ex- 
plained. Gorney said the ratio 
system was considered by all 
regional campuses in the In- 
diana-Purdue network, and he 
believed the IPFW system was 
used by Purdue-Calumet as a 
model. He noted that all regional 
campuses changed their fee 
policies and all part-time 
students are now charged student 
service fees automatically. 

The student service fee is 
allocated by the student govern- 
ment to the following: the 
athletic department; the 
department of Fine Arts ; the Day 
Care Center, which also charges 
a user fee to defer additional 
expenses; PIT; the Indian- 
Purdue Forensics League; the 
student activity office account; 
the student government office 
account; SUBOG; and the IPFW 
division of music. Not all of these 
receive equal allotments of the 
gross fees; rather, each receives 
a certain percentage. 




Tina-mania! 

Tina Turner fans waited for 
hours outside the Memorial 
Coliseum box office (above) 
before tickets went on sale 
August 12. IPFW sophomore 
Marianne Spahiev (ri^t) sells 
tickets at Karma Records, 3413 
N. Anthony Blvd. (Photos by 
Lilly Lyon). 



Ulife ^anuminicatar 



, 1969 

Michael DcFreeuw Publisher 

Johnclte Toplisek Ediior-in-Chief 

Annciie Ro&gt; . .ManoEing Ediior 

Lilly Lyon Copy Ediior 

Michek Shaffer Fcaiutc Editor 

Spotls Edi(0( 

Phoio Ediiof 

Advenising Manager 

. . Advetiising Rcprescniaiivc 

, putilnhtd on ThursdiJi morninms when closics are in sesjion by 

.. i nol-lor-proni organizalion incorporaied in ihe ilaic of Indiana. 

a-Purduc Communicaior w [hal of Ihc writer, or. in llie case of unsigned 



Kirk Barnes. 
Janei Niiecki. . 
Roger Recce. . . 

The Indiana-Purdue Com 
Indiana-Purdue Siudeni Nev 
n enpressed ii 



s repieseming I hal of ihc 



editoriab, ihal of Ihe ediiorial boaid of ihc newspaper, and 
university administralion, the faculty, or the student body. 

The ediiorial offices of the Indiana-Purdue Communicator and Ihc business ofnces of Indlana'Purdue 
Students-Newspapers, Inc. are located in Room 215 or the Student Union. Indiana-Purdue University Fort 
Wnync Campus. 2101 Coliseum Blvd. East. Fort Wayne, Indiana 46805. Communicaior editorial phone numbei 
48;-5J85, Communicator advenising phone number 4S2-5S23. 

The Communieatot welcomes letters to ihe Editor, All letters should be short and to the point. The editorial 
board reserves the right to edit all letters and to not print those which they feel are objectionable. The writer's 
name, addiess and phone number should be included on the letter but only the name wilt be printed. Names will 
be withheld upon request by the wfilcr. All letters must be typed-double spaced, and on one lideofily Deadlines 
for letters is Ihe Eriday before the week of publication. 




SALOON 



(219) 424-9279 

3730 E. Washington Blvd. 
Adjacent to the Hallmark Inn at the Cloverleaf 

.UPCOMING EVEHTfl 

MON., AUG. 19 - JACK DANIELS 4.00 9-1 
TUES., AUG. 20 - LINGERIE SHOW 8-12 

Draft Beer 50' 
WED., AUG. 21 - DRINK STAMP 9-1 
THURS., AUG. 22 • INTERNATIONAL KNIGHTS 
FRI., AUG. 23 - MASON AND THE JARS 
iMON., AUG. 26 - SEAGRAMS 7 '1.00 9-1 
TUES., AUG. 27 - LINGERIE SHOW 8-12 

Draff Beer 50' 
WED., AUG. 28 • DRINK STAMP 9-1 

Schedule t Prices Subject To Change W/0 Notice 





Communicator letter policy 

Every week The Communicator reserves space on this page 
for letters from readers. Your views are welcome. 

Preferences will be given to letters of less than 500 words and 
those addressing matters of direct concern to the IPFW com- 
munity. If necessary, we will edit your letters for brevity or clari- 
ty. 

Letters must include your name, address and telephone 
number. Your address and telephone number will not be 
published, and your name will be withheld upon request. 

Please type your letter double-spaced or write legibly on every 
other line. 

You may bring your letter to The Communicator office, Walb 
Memorial Union, room 215, or send it to The Communicator, 
Suite 215, Walb Memorial Union, 2101 Coliseum Blvd. East, 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805. 



.U-^ 



^ 



&gt;i^ 



V" BANISHAIR 
ELECTROLYSIS 



ll*laM&gt;dk, 



la tta Hm U lflma il CanatoiTi 
I, ifpihilBiBt •*!; Ftm 

CM»&lt;f«tiM. 

Om«&lt;Mii&lt;i|i 
PkoM 416-2001 




^ 


^KL 


j^v^ ^Hv 


••^ # 


^^^tr '^' ^ ^^K^S- 


_-^- 


^^^m &lt;^ 1r ^^^■■K 


„.*-&lt;« 


VHf ^i^^^WV 


k^ :f 


^f^ -^ ^^m 


^ 


rfl^HH '^^W"" 


**\ 


" 1. 


-A 


Linda Gardner and Wanda Brooks were Jusl two of the women in PIT'S summer production of "For 1 


Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide When the Rainbow is Enuf," 


a celebration of being black 


and being a woman. The play was directed and choreographed by Larry 


L. Life. 



PIT directors take steps 
to a year of success 



By MICHELE SHAFFER 

Feature Editor 

It'll be hard for PIT staff to 



compete with last year's suc- 
cessful season, climaxed with 
"Steps In Time." 



^^pptn' OPut 



COMMUNITY FEST 

St. Paul Catholic Church is 
sponsoring a walk-a-thon as part 
of their celebration of National 
Hispanic Heritage Week, Sept. 8 
to 15. The walk-a-thon will depart 
at 7 a.m. on Sept. 14 from the 
church parking lot, 416 W. 
Washington St., and continue 
through the West Central 
District. Funds raised from the 
event will benefit Youth 
Developmental Programs. There 
is a $10 registration fee for non- 
parishioner participants. 



PIT 

Auditions for PIT'S fall opener, 
"Tobacco Road," have been set 
for Sept. 3 and 4 at 7:30 p.m. in 
PIT. "Tobacco Road," scheduled 
to open Oct, 11, calls for a cast of 
11 people, five men and six 
women, ranging in age from 16 to 
80. 

ARTS 

Photographic works by Darryl 
Jones, entitled "Darryl Jones: 
Photographer," will be on exhibit 
at the Fort Wayne Museum of 
Art, 311 E. Main St., through 
Sept. 8. The museum is open 
Tuesday through Saturday, 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m., and Sundays, 1 
p.m. to 4 p.m. 



However, Larry Life is taking 
steps right now to ensure that tliis 
year goes off without a hitch. 

Work is beginning on "Tobacco 
Road," PIT fall premiere 
opening October 11. "Tobacco 
Road," an American classic 
based on the novel by Erskine 
Caldwell. "It's about poor, 
itinerant, degenerant, dirt far- 
mers living in Georgia during the 
depression," said Larry Life, 
Assistant Professor in Com- 
munication and Theatre. 

"Tobacco Road" requires a 
castof 11 people, six men and five 
women ranging in age from 16 to 
80 years. Auditions are set for 
Sept. 3 and 4 at 7:30 p.m. in PIT. 

"Fool for Love," directed by 
PIT newcomer, Joel K. Murray, 
will open November 22. Larry 
will then take his " turn at 
"Luther," opening February 14. 
"Barefoot in the Park" will 
follow on April 11 under Murray's 
direction. 



Because We Care About You 




i\-"l^ \n V [fell 

We welcome you to... 

^^^SSaV HAIR CARE CE^^-ERSSS 
10% OFF ALL HAIR CARE SERVICES WITH IPFW LD. THRU MAY 31, 1986! 



483-2457 or 484-7466 
3431 E. State Blvd. 
Ft. Wayne, IN 46805 



Revealing a new look 
in You - |SR£DK£N- 



MONDAY. AUG. 19. 1985— THE COMMUNICATOR— PAGE 3 

Murray to direct 
Tood for Love' 



By MICHELE SHAFFER 
Feature Editor 

When the curtain rises on PIT'S 
production of "Fool for Love" on 
Nov. 22, Dr. David McCants, 
Chair of the Communication and 
Theatre Department, will 
discover if he made the right 
choice in hiring JoetK. Murray, a 
new face in PIT'S windows. 

Murray, who comes to IPFW 
from Bowling Green State 
University, will direct PIT's fall 
production of "Fool for Love." 
"Barefoot in the Park," opening 
April 11, 1986, will be the spring 
production to fall under Murray's 
care. 

The new addition to IPFW's 
staff seemed enthusiastic to be 
joining such a vibrant student's 
theatre as PIT. "I think I would 
fit in with it. I have a great deal of 
enthusiasm. I like to work with 



people," said Murray. 

Since he is new to PIT, he said 
it's too early to say where he'd 
like to see PIT go, although 
Murray did admit, "I think I'd 
like to see it continue as strongly 
as what I've heard (about PIT)." 

Murray graduated from 
Bowling Green State University 
in 1983 with his Master's degree. 
Presently, he is finishing up work 
on his Doctor of Philosophy 
degree from BGSU. "I've 
finished up all my course work, 
exams, and right now I'm 
working on my dissertation." 

His dissertation concerns 
deconstruct ive play script in- 
terpretation. "It's a fairly radical 
philosophy. Therefore it is a 
radical approach to play 
scripts." Somewhat op- 
timistically, Murray added, "I 
hope I can add to this new field." 



STUDENTS, FACULTY 

STAFF: 

JOIN NOW AND RECEIVE 

Fall Semester *115 (8/26-12/20) 

Full School Year «180 (8/26-5/1) 



Bring this ad in with your 
IPFW identification to 



PROVIDING THE LATEST I,\ E.XERCI.SE PHYSIOLOGY 



;RS0NAUZED INSTRUCTION . NAUTILUS 

AEROBICS UNIVERSAL 

TA.NNING BEDS FR 

CO-ED JUICE BAR SAUNA-WHIRLI'OOI, 



COME SEE US NOW FOR YOUR 
'TOTAL FITNESS' LOOK 




~SINCE 194A- 



Open 24 hours 

a day 

7 days 

a week 



PAGE 4 — THE COMMUNICATOR — MONDAY, AUG. 19. 1985 



Coach Ball assisting U.S. team in Japan 



When Arnie BaD received word 
of his selection as assistant coach 
for the World University Games 
in Kobe. Japan, it wasn't in a 
setting many would associate 
with voUeyball. Ball, men's and 
women's volleyball coach at 
Indiana University-Purdue 
University at Fort Wayne (IPF- 
W), was sitting in the middle at a 
three-day snowstorm in Downers 
Grove, III., when the call came 
from Ken Preston, bead coach of 
the United States team. 

Months later, Ball left for 
Colorado Springs, Colo., where 
the adventure began. 

On Aug. 3 Ball joined Preston, 
volleyball coach at the University 
of California at Santa Barbara, 
and Tom Read, another 
assistant, of Chapman College in 
California, and the trio will be in 
charge of training the best 
American coU^iate men players 
for the World University Games 
which involve more than 100 
countries and 5,000 athletes. 

After a two-week training 
session in Colorado Springs, 
Colo., coaches and team will 



travel to Japan for the Games 
Aug. 24 to Sept. 4. The training 
session in Colorado Springs will 
be Ball's second visit to the ci^ 
which bouses the United States 
Olympic Committee's training 
center. 

He coached the North team in 
the 1983 National Sports Festival 
in Colorado Springs. His work 
with the best 16- to 18-year-olds in 
the north region and with the 
IPFW teams gave a coach from 
the Midwest the exposure that led 
to his selection for the Games. 

The Games won't be Ball's Brst 
contact with international 
competition, but the trip to Japan 
will be his first one overseas. 

"IPFW entertained the Soviet 
collegiate all-star volleyball 
team in 1983," Ball said, "and I 
know how good the caliber of play 
will be in Japan. Having the 
Soviets play on campus was a 
great experience, and facing that 
type of competition then made 
me want to experience more 
international play." 

Although BaU will miss some of 
the women's team's preseason 



workouts, he believes coaching 
skills employed in the Games will 
help IPFW teams later when 
competition starts. It also will 
bring international recognition 
for IPFW and its volleyball 
program. 

"We will be able to use this 
experience as a recruiting aid for 
IPFW volleyball teams, and it 
should bring better players to 
campus," he said. 

Another plus Ball hopes to 
capitalize on from his month-long 
trip is to lay the groundwork to 
bring the best American and 
international competitirai to the 
Summit City. 

"It will be difficult to use this 
trip to market the campus and 
Fort Wayne," Ball said, "but, I 
believe I can gain some national 
and international exposure for 
our program. With the right 
contacts, we may be able to have 
some of the best teams in the 
states, and in the world, show 
interest in coming to Fort 
Wayne." 

Ball, a Monroeville High School 
graduate, was a setter during his 



volleyball career at Ball State 
University from 1964-67. He was 
an all-conference selection his 
jimior and senior seasons and 
was named team captain and 
MVP as a senior. After college, 
he taught and coached at New 
Haven High School for five years. 

From New Haven he moved to 
Harding High School in Fori 
Wayne for an eight-year stay. He 
started Harding's men's 
volleyball program and guided it 
to three consecutive Indiana 
State Coaches' Association 
volleyball tournament cham- 
pionships. 

WhUe still at Harding, BaU 
began the IPFW men's volleyball 
program in 1977 as a volunteer 
coach. In 1979, the sport obtained 
varsity status, tut Ball didn't join 
the IPFW staff until 1981, when 
he was named men's and 
women's volleyball coach and 
sports information director. His 
current title is assistant athletic 
director. 

IPFW athletic director Dave 
Skelton praised Preston and the 
volleyball committee for 



choosing Ball as an assistant. 

"It is an honor for Coach BaU 
and IPFW that he has been 
selected as a coach for the World 
University Games," Skelton said. 
"I beUeve the selectim com- 
mittee made an exceUent choice 
— in the six years he has been 
affiliated with the campus, Ar- 
nie's done an outstanding job 
developing both volleyball 
programs." 



AO IPFW studenU, male and 
female, who intend to participate 
in varsity athletics at IPFW 
shouki report to the trailing 
room of the Multipurpose 
Buildiz% for physical exams on 
Momlay, Au^t id at 6 p.m. (h* 
Tuestlay, August 27 at 6 p.m. 

AJ} IPFW students, male and 
female, interested in trying out 
for the varsity teams in cross 
country, golf, t«mis, basebaU, 
and the cheerleading squad 
should cmitact the respective 
coach or the Office of Athletics at 
482-^3$l no later than Mwiday, 
August 26, for information 
relative to try-out and practic« 



IPFW athletics have new faces for 85-86 



From Staff Reports 

As the 1985-86 school year 
opens, there are some new faces 
in the IPFW athletic department. 

Most notably, Julie Calahan 
has been appointed to replace 
Kirk Kavanaugh as women's 
basketball coach. Kavanaugh 
resigned at the end of this past 
season. 



Calahan, who was granted a 
master's degree in exercise 
physiology by Ohio State 
University and a bachelor's 
degree in secondary education by 
Northwestern University, was 
most recently assistant women's 
basketbaU coach at Montana 
State University. 



In another coaching change, 
Bruce Mahlock has been named 
IPFW's head golf coach. Mahlock 
replaces Don Bruick. 

An avid golfer and fan, 
Mahlock began his coaching 
experience with a senior Walther 
League basketbaU team in 1975. 
He has also assisted for an "A" 
division slo-pitch softbaU team 



and a senior open hockey team. 
Mahlock has coached youth 
hockey teams for the past five 
years. 

The 35-year-old Fort Wayne 
native inherits a team that 
finished fifth in the U-team 
IPFW tournament and seventh in 
Great Lakes VaUey Conference' 
play this past season. 



Also, all-city soccer players 
Tim Jordan, of North Side High 
School, and Neal Brock, of 
Homestead High School, wiU play 
for IPFW's soccer team this fall. 
Jordan was an aU-city sweeper 
and Brock was one of Fort 
Wayne's scoring leaders in ad- 
dition to making the conference 
team. 





elieve ltZ&gt; 

"It*s Good For You...Anytime" 

How can something that tastes so good 
frg so good^oj^uouf 




This coupon is good for 



&lt;^off any Sundae Delight 
or Shake at 



THE FITNESS 
CONNECTION 



Coupon Expires Sept. 15, 1985 

3233 St. Joe Center Rd. Riviera Plaza 48&amp;4233 



@ 



Our frozen yogurt has 40% less calories, one-fourth the 
cholesterol and over 70% less fat than premium ice cream. 



:• •\ 



E 



IPFW 



Marketpice ol 
Canterbury 



St. Joe Ctr. Rd. 



«*- iCs 



THE FITNiSS 
CONNECTION 

welcomes back 

IPFW STUDENTS 



IT'S NOT A 

HARD JOB... 
BUT SOMEONE'S GOT 

TO DO IT. 

The Communicator needs a Sports Editor to begin 
work right away. 

If you have an interest in sports and a little bit of ex- 
perience — you might be right for this paid position. 
We're willing to train the right person if necessary. 
Come to Walb room 215 and find out how you can 
earn money and valuable experience while having fun. 



\ 



AGED ANY 
SINCE SPRING? 

(Or You Know "Other" People Who Have?) 

Let's face it. You're either having to deal with "them" or, perish 
the thought, you're actually one of 'em. Either way, like Scarlet 
O'Hara, you'd like to think about this "tomorrow." 

OK, watch for our upcoming series sponsored by the Vice 
Chancellor's Committee on Aging and the Aged. The topics will 
be "timely" permitting you to "keep up" with those of us who 
are also aging today but thinking about it tomorrow. 




1985-86 STUDENT HANDBOOK 

Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne 




PAGE 2 —THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 19. 1985 



I— Nicholson welcomes all 




Edward A. Nicholson, vice 
chancellor of academic 
affairs, is currently serving 
as the acting chancellor. 



By enrolling this fall at 
IPFW, you iiave begun — or 
resumed — the course 
toward your educational 
goals. Whether your goals 
are firmly cast or somewhat 
vaguely defined, you will 
find this campus has many 
people, organizations, and 
other resources to help you 
accomplish your goals. 

If your academic course is 
not fixed and you've yet to 
make a commitment to a 
major area, you can sample 
varied fields of study. But in 



order not to waste credits as 
an undecided student, you 
will need the help of a 
Student Academic Coun- 
sehng Services advisor. 

On the other hand, if your 
choice of major has been 
made, you may feel that 
your schedule is well 
outlined for the next few 
semesters. While much has 
been decided, much remains 
to be explored: your own 
potentiality, how far you 
want to go, how much t^e 
and energy you can muster, 



and what significance you 
attach to your studies. -To 
help ,you answer these 
questions, there are, at 
every hand, professors who 
will help you realize your 
potential and accomplish 
your purposes. 

There are always prac- 
ticalities to be managed, and 
IPFW has many services to 
help you succeed in your 
goals. These resources 
reflect the diversity of IPFW 
students and our com- 
mitment to meet diverse 



needs of working students, 
students with physical 
limitations or learning 
disabilities, returning 
veterans, minority students, 
parents, or those returning 
to the classroom after a 
lapse of time. Classes are 
offered days, evenings, and 
weekends; the Child Care 
Center serves children aged 
six months through 10 years. 
There are study skills and 
tutoring services available 
through Transitional 
Studies; career guidance 



and job placement are of- 
fered by Counseling, 
Testing, and Placement 
Services. We hope you will 
take the time to become 
acquainted with any of these 
services that interest you. 
As you begin the academic 
year. you have our 
assurance that the faculty 
and staff of IPFW are here to 
help you set your course, 
accomplish yotu* goals, and 
provide you with the services 
you need. Welcome to 
IPFW! 



Information, assistance available 



Grade appeals procedure 

The academic appeals process applies to all students 
enrolled at IPFW. It can be used by any student who has 
evidence or believes that evidence exists to show that a 
course grade was assigned or a similar evaluation was made 
as a result of prejudice, caprice, or other improper condition 
such as mechanical error. 

In appealing, the student must support in writing the 
allegation that an improper decision has been made and 
must specify the remedy sought. The student should seek the 
assistance of the Dean of Student Services in pursuing the 
appeal. During an appeal, the burden of proof is on the 
student, except in the case of alleged academic dishonesty, 
where the instructor must support the a negation. 

Grades may be changed only by a university authority 
upon the decision of the Academic Appeals Subcommittee, 
or by the instructor any time prior to the decision of the 
Academic Appeals Subcommittee. 
Timing of Appeals 

An appeal must be initiated no later than the fourth week 
of the fall or spring semester immediately following the 
session in which the decision was made. Each successive 
step in the appeals procedure must be initiated within three 
calendar weeks of the completion of the prior step. 
Steps in the Process of an Academic Appeal 

1. Course instructor; The student makes an appointment 
with the instructor to discuss the matter. {If the instructor is 
unavailable, the department-division-program chair shall 
authorize an extension of time or allow the student to 
proceed to Step 2.) 

2. Department-division-program: If the matter has not 
been resolved at Step 1, the student makes an appointment 
with the chair of the department-division-program offering 
the course, who will direct the student procedurally in 
making an appeal to the appropriate committee. 

3. Academic Appeals Subcommittee: If the matter has not 
been resolved at Step 2, the student makes an appointment 
with the Dean of the Faculty, who will direct the student 
procedurally in submitting the case to the Academic Appeals 
Subcommittee. 

Dcpartmenv-Divislon-Program Appeals Procedure 

Each department-division-program will establish appeals 
procedures which provide for a committee of three or more 
Faculty members responsible for hearing academic appeals 
related to courses listed or administered by that depart- 
ment-division-program if those appeals have not been 
satisfactorily resolved between the student and the in- 
structor. The procedures established by each department- 
division-program shall provide for each case to be heard by 



only one such committee, and a copy of each unit's 
procedures will be given to the Deans of Student Services 
and of the Faculty, and to students upon request. 

Academic Appeals Subcommittee 

This subcommittee shall consist of seven members and 
three alternate members elected from among the Instruc- 
tional Faculty according to procedures specified in the 
Senate Bylaws. 

No member of the subcommittee may take part in an 
appeal involving a course or instructor from the member's 
department-division- program. Alternates will be assigned 
by the chair to serve as regular members in such cases. 

Before hearing the details of a case, the subcommittee will 
decide whether to consider the appeal, and will report its 
decision in writing to the student and the instructor. 
Decisions to consider an appeal will be based upon a finding 
that (1) improper procedures have been followed by 
university employees at earlier steps of the appeal; (2) new 
information is present; or (3) the instructor has declined to 
accept the department-division-program committee's 
recommendation. 

If the case is heard, every member of the subcommittee 
will vote on whether the appeal is valid and, if so, on what 
remedy should be provided. If the subcommittee, by 
majority vote, finds in favor of changing a grade, the chair 
shall report this finding to the registrar. The decision of the 
subcommittee is binding on all parties and may not be ap- 
pealed. 

The subcommittee shall report its findings and actions to 
the student, the Dean of the Faculty, the department- 
division-program from which the appeal came, and the 
instructor. 

Transitional studies 

On the way to a degree, you may need some help. 
Transitional studies can make the critical difference. 

The Developmental Skills Center (Kettler 118) offers you 
free help in developing reading, writing, math, and study 
skills (note-taking, textbook-reading, test-taking) on a 
drop-in basis, day and evening, during the school year. 

You can find in the Developmental Skills Center free 
tutorial help in some introductory courses. We also attempt 
to match people needing tutorial help in advanced courses 
with available tutors; financial arrangements for this 
tutoring must be made by students and tutors involved. 

Credit course work is offered in individualized sections of 
Education X150 {Reading-Learning Techniques I, a reading- 
study skills course; Educatiwi X151 (Reading - Leamuig 
Techniques II), a study-skills course which emphasizes the 
application of study skills to real college courses; and 
selected sections of Math HI, which maintain a smaller than 
average student-teacher ratio. 



The RAP (Returning Adult Place) program is for 
students coming to the university after being out of school 
for one or more years. RAP features a free monthly 
newsletter on university services and procedures, and 
meetings dedicated to improving students' study or per- 
sonal skills. To get the newsletter and meeting information, 
stop in Kettler 1 18, or call us at 482-5655. 

Housing information 

No housing facilities are on the IPFW campus. However, 
the student activities office (482-5616) dispenses housing 
information upon request. There are dormitory facilities 
available for men and women at nearby Concordia 
Theological Seminary, and dormitory-type facilities 
available for women only at the YWCA. The student ac- 
tivities office does not approve or disapprove housing; it 
merely serves as a clearinghouse for housing information. 

Financial aid 

Financial aid helps students finance their college 
education. The financial aid office (482-5641) uses grants and 
scholarships, loans, and part-time employment, either singly 
or in combination, as the means to provide this assistance. 

Even though most aid is restricted to full-time un- 
dergraduate students, some programs are available for part- 
time and graduate students. You must file an IPFW financial 
aid application and a Financial Aid Form (FAF) to be con- 
sidered. The applications are reviewed confidentially by a 
financial aid counselor, and your aid award is based on the 
calculated need and the availability of funds. 

You are urged to apply by March 1 for the following 
academic year. Applications are accepted after that date, 
but late filers run the risk of encountering fund shortages. 
Also, early application assures that your forms will be 
processed in time for fall registration. 

The financial aid office, located in Kettler 109, has a staff of 
trained counselors to assist with the application process. The 
regular office hours are 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through 
Thursday, and 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday. If necessary, ap- 
pointments may be made for other times. 

Veterans' services 

Your GI Bill education benefits can be used at IPFW. The 
veterans' services office in Kettler 107 will help you apply 
for aid. Usually, the only form you should bring is your 
discharge paper (DD214) . 

Normal processing time for a new application is 45-60 
days. 

The Vet-Rep-On-Campus has information dealing with all 
phases of veterans' benefits, or can refer you to the proper 
community agencies. 



Arts and crafts 
room open 
to students 



The arts and crafts room is a unique feature of the IPFW 
campus. Located in Walb Memorial Union 214 and 218 it 
offers a variety of resources: a darkroom for black-and- 
white photography, weaving looms, lapidary and 
silkscreening equipment, a large ceramics area that in- 
cludes potter's wheels and an electric kiln, a drawing and 
painting area, and a woodworking shop which houses 
motorized saws, a drill press, and other basic equipment for 
carpentry. All students, faculty, staff, and alumni of IPFW 
are invited to use the room and its facilities, free of charge. 

The room is designed as a comfortable setting for those 
wishing to take a break from the everyday stress of classes, 
studies, and-or work. It also provides an accessible place 
for students to work on their school-related projects such as 
graphs, posters, illustrations, etc. A creative atmosphere is 
offered for those wanting to learn about art, yet who never 
before had such a wide range of facilities at their disposal. 

Although the arts and crafts room provides much of the 
necessary equipment, those wishing to use the facilities 
must furnish the consumable materials. For example, 
those interested in ceramics must purchase clay and 



glazes. Those who want to print photographs must buy 
photographic paper and chemicals. Lockers, in the hallway 
adjacent to the craft room, are recommended for personal 
art-supply storage. A list of local art-supply stores is on 
display in the crafts room. 

During an average week, approximately 50-75 people use 
the room. The time between Thanksgiving and Christmas is 
the busiest, since many students and staff make use of the 
facilities for gifts. Here's just a sampling of what has come 
out of the crafts room: stereo speakers, silk-screened 
(Christmas cards, a silver ring and bracelet set, matching 
end tables, a ceramic dinnerware set, silk-screened T- 
shirts, loom-woven wool scarves, and life-sized Indian-chief 
sculpture. 

The crafts room is physically accessible to the disabled, 
and the staff believes art to be an important and vital outlet 
for them. Since each student receives individual attention, 
each is encouraged to work at her or his own level of 
achievement. Blind students have made beautiful ceramic 
and sculpture pieces; paraplegics have been involved in 
woodworking and photography. 



AUGUST 19. 1985 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK - PAGE 3 




Be wise. 
Bank on 
campus with 

the OWL 



If you dashed to class without your cash, don't worry. 
There's a Fort Wayne National Bank OWL Machine 
downstairs in the Walb Memorial Union Building. 

The OWL automatic teller lets you make withdrawals, 
deposits or transfer funds without leaving campus. 
How's that for a class act? 

Get wise today. Get an OWL Card from Summit Bank, 
Fort Wayne National Bank or Three Rivers Credit Union. 
And start banking on campus with the OWL. 



fORT WAYNE 

NATIONAL BANK 

MEMBER FOiC 



A REAL 
LEARNING EXPERIENCE 



A few hours a week with your Little 
Brother can teach him alot about friendship. 
And it doesn't take place in a classroom. 

As a Big Brother, you're matched with one 
of the nearly 150 fatherless boys waiting for 
an adult friend. Waiting for you to show him 
how to catch a fish. . .or throw a baseball. 
To do the things a kid likes to do ...just to 
be a friend. 

The time it takes is worth it . . . it'll be 
a real learning experience for both of you. 



BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS 



® 



424-1600 

919 Fairfield Avenue, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46802 



Your Art Supply Headquarters! 

• Student Discounts 

•Large Inuentory 
•Special Ordering 




FREDRrx 









PAASCHE AIRBRUSH 

HUNTg[F[lM2)[M[UL 




X-ACTO 



Come in and kxjk us over. . . 
you'll see one of the nrxjst complete art supplies displays ever in this area, and 
at reasonable prices... oil paints, water colors, acrylics, pens, knives, easels, 
matboard, bnshes, painting sets, and many more. 

DOWNTOWN- 






SUPERIOR at WELLS 

Fort Wayne, Indiana 46802 

424-5229 or 424-5225 

OPEN WEEKDAYS 8 to 5: SAT. 8 to NOON 




Allen County Games 

Welcomes All 

New &amp; Returning Students 

to 

IPFW 



Play all your favorite 

Video Games and Pinball 

in the basement of 

Walb Memorial Union 

\ / 



PAGE 4 -THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 19, 1985 



Over 50 student organizations 



There are over 50 recof^uzed student organizations at 
IPFW. If a group is interested in an activity that is not 
organized, it is possible to start a new club. The necessary 
steps are as follows: 

1. Obtain from the Office of Student Services a petition 
which is to be signed by the faculty advisor and officers of 
the organization. 

2. Present the petition and two copies of the constitution to 
the director of activities. 

3. The constitution committee of the Student Senate will 
review the constitution and forward it to the Senate with a 
recommendation. 

4. The Senate will vote on recognition. 

5. Upon approval, the officers of the recognized 
organization must establish a checking account in the 
bursar's office. All funds must be deposited in this account. 



Student Senate 

Student Union Board of Governors 

Departmental Organizations 

Anthropology Club 
Biology Club 
Beta Beta Beta 
Engineering Club 
Forenstcs League 
French Club 
Geology Club 

Indiana-Purdue Communication Club 
Music Therapy Club 
Philosophy Club 
Psychology Club 
Res Publica 

School of Fine Arts (SOFA) 
Sociology Club 
Speech and Hearing Club 
Professional Organizations 
Accounting Society 
American Chemical Society 
American Society of Mechanictd Engineers 
American Society of Personnel 
Administration 



Data Processmg Management 
Association (DPMA) 
Delta Sigma Phi (Bus. Frat) 
Junior American Dental Hygienists 
Organization (JADHA) 
Indiana Assoc, of Nursing Students 
Music Educators National Conference 
National Education Assoclabon (SNEA) 
Panhellenic Association 
Phi Theta Kappa 
Society of Automotive Engineers 
Tau Alpha PI 

Zeta Psi Sigma Alpha (Sigma Alpha lota) 
Other Organizations 
Big Brothers-Big Sisters 
Black Collegian Caucus 
Campus Crusade for Christ 
Communicator 

Council for the Recondition of Disabled 
Students 

Graduation Class Council 
Indiana Purdue Christian Fellowship 
International Students Organization 
MADD (Mothers Against Drunk Drivers) 



New Life Fellowship 

Students for International Peace 

The Student Action Coalition 

Universit&gt;' Religious Forum 

Vietnamese Shident Assoc, at IPFW 
Special Interest 

Apple Computer Club 

Bahai 

Ceramics 

Chess Club 

College Republicans 

Democratic Socialist Organization 

Indiana Fathers for Equal Rights 

Tae Kwan Do 

Tn-State Folk Music Society 

Universlt)' Feminists 

University Friends of Animals 

University Gay Acbvists 
Creek Organizations 

Delta Gamma 

Phi Kappa Theta 

Pi Beta Phi 

Sigma Gamma Epsilon 

Sigma Phi Epsilon 



Class and grade requirements 



NOTE: The questions and answers shown below are 
intended to help explain some of the most important 
university policies. The campus bulletin includes official 
information about these pohcies. 

ATTENDING CLASSES 

1. Is regular class attendance required? 

Yes. Although the method of recording attendance may 
vary from class to class, students are expected to attend 
every class meeting for which they are enrolled. 

2. What should I do if I am unable to attend a class? 
Contact the professor as soon as possible to make 

arrangements for make-up work, if such work is permitted. 
The only acceptable excuses for absence are generally 
related to illness and family emergency situations. Missing 
classes may seriously reduce the quality of your work and 
result in a poor grade. 

SCHEDULE ADJUSTMENT 

3. Can I drop classes any time I want to? 

No. A class cannot be dropped during the last six weeks 
of the semester or the last two weeks of a summer session. 

4. How do I drop a class? 

First you must get a drop-add form from your advisor. 
During the first 9 weeks of classes, that is all you must 
submit to the registrar's office to officially drop the class. 
After that time, the instructor and your academic dean 
must also approve each class to be dropped, and they will 
do so only in unusual circumstances. 

5. Can I add a class to my schedule after I have 
registered? 

Yes. Classes may be added with approval from your ad- 
visor during the first week of classes. The instructor of each 
class must also approve additions after that time. 

6. If I want to quit school before classes are over, what do 
I have to do? 

Follow the procedure described for dropping a class. Not 
attending class is not the same as withdrawal. Students who 
do not withdraw properly from a course will receive a 
failing grade. 

CHANGING MAJORS 

7. Can I change my major if I change my mind about what 
I want to study? 

Yes. You should contact the department that offers your 
new major. A change form will be sent to your department 
and to the registrar's office. 

GRADES 

8. What kind of grades are given credit courses? 
A full list of grades appears in the IPFW Bulletin. 



9. What is the "Pass-Fail Option" for a grade in class? 
This is an opportunity for you to take some courses 

without affecting your GPA. However, unsatisfactory work 
may count as an F in your GPA. You must have an ad- 
visor's permission to take a course under this option. 

10. What does it mean if I get a grade of "I", incomplete? 
The grade of "I" means that you could not complete all 

requirements for the course by the end of the semester and 
that you and the instructor have agreed on a method to 
finish those requirements. You must remember that if the 
requirements are not met by the appropriate deadline, that 
incomplete "I" grade will become an "F" failing grade. 

U. If my grades are bad, will I be able to continue in 
school? 

First, all grades that you have earned at tfaii campus will 
be averaged together. Generally, the first semester that 
this average is below the university's or school's minimum 
requirement you will only be placed on probation, which 
means that you will be given an opportunity to raise your 
GPA through additional classes the next time you enroll. If 
vou then continue with poor grades, you will be subject to 



dismissal from the university. 

12, If 1 am dismissed from the university, will I ever be 
permitted to return? 

Generally a student may request to be readmitted lo the 
viniversity after being out of school for one semester. Once 
the readmission is approved, the student will be able to 
enroll but will again be placed on probation until the 
minimum GPA has been achieved. The request for read- 
mission must generally be submitted one month before the 
start of that semester. 



OTHER ACADEMIC 

MATTERS 

13- Under what conditions am 1 considered to be a student 
in good standing? 

You are considered to be in good standing if not 
dismissed, suspended, dropped from the university without 
being readmitted, or on probation. 

14. What conditions will deny me the opportunity to 
register for classes? 

The most common reason is that you owe money to the 
university. If you are a student in good standing, other 
reasons would include misconduct and violation of any 
ndes adopted and made public by the trustees. 

15. If 1 feel that I have not been treated fairly with regard 
to a grade I received- or an assignment I completed, what 
can I do about it? 

You have the right to request that the situation be 
reviewed in a process called a grade appeal. For in- 
formation regarding such procedures, contact the chair of 
the department responsible for teaching the course. 

16. Can I transfer from the Fort Wayne campus to another 
school? 

Yes. However, any student who intends to transfer should 
consult with her or his advisor to make proper 
arrangements well in advance of the intended time of 
transfer. 



17. What is plagiarism? 

Plagiarism is claiming the work of someone else as if it 
were your own original work. Plagiarism usually occurs 
when a student writes a paper, submits a project, or 
prepares a collection and includes quotes or ideas from 
another source without acknowledgement. It is serious 
violation and can^ lead to disciplinary action. 

NONDISCRIMINATION 

^ IPFW is an equal access-equal opportunity university. No 
qualified person will be denied admission or employment, 
nor will any student or employee be subjected to 
discriminatory treatment or be excluded from par- 
ticipation in any educational program or activity, on the 
basis of race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin, 
handicap, or status as a disabled or Vietnam Era veteran. 
Further information is available from the affirmative 
action officer(482-5434). 



Student academic counseling services 

Assisting students with academic schedules as well as 
with other academic problems is the role of the student 
academic counseling office. Staffed with professional 
counselors and student paraprofessionals, the office is open 
from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. weekdays, and after 5 p.m. by ap- 
pointment. You may stop by the office in Kettler llOE or 
■call 482-5393 for assistance. Information shared with a 
counselor is strictly confidential^ 



Non-harassment advice 

IPFW strives to maintain the campus as a place where 
students may study and work free of sexual harassment and 
harassment on tfie basis of race, color, religion, national 
origin, or olher protected status. Students should be aware 
that harassment in the educational enviroment is unaccep- 
table conduct and will not be condoned. If you have a ques- 
tion or a complaint, or want advice, you may talk with ne of 
the official designees or the affirmative action officer listed 
below. 
Marjorie E. Crill 482-5433, 482-5826 

Associate Professor, Nursing 
Arthur W.Friedel 482-5676 

Associate Professor. Chemiitry 
Stephen Harroft 482-5227 

Assistant Professor, Germanic Languages 
Patricia A. Hudson 482-5336 

Employment &amp; Benefits Admlnistfator 

Personnel-Payroll Services 
Rosemary M. Kovara 482-5460 

Assistant Professor and Dental 

Assisting Supervisor Dental 

Auxiliary Education 
Joanne B.Lantz 482-5694 

Professor and Chair, 

Psychological Sciencess 
Geraldine Murdock 482-5641 

Student Record Clerk, Financial Aid 
Marjorie E. Souers 482-5581 

Associate Professor, Education 
David R. Skelton 482-5284 

Assistant Dean for Student Service 

and Director of Athletic Programs 
DonnyJ.Worthley 482-5393 

Director, Student Academic 

Counseling Services 
Donna MIddleton 482-5434 

Affirmative Action Officer 



National Student exchange 

An exciting opportunity awaits students through the 
National Student Exchange program. Have you ever 
dreamed of going to school in Montana, New Mexico, South 
Carolina, Wisconsin, or perhaps even Hawaii, and not be 
charged out-of-state fees? Your dream could come true by 
participating in the National Student Exchange. 

The NSE provides the opportunity for IPFW students to 
spend a year of study in residence at a member institution 
during Uieir sophomore or junior years. Participating 
students remain enrolled at IPFW while on exchange, and 
credit earned on exchange is recorded as regular d^ree 
credit. It is an ideal way for students to broaden cultural ^ 
and educational horizons wHile progressing toward their 
local degree objectives. 

If the National Student Exchange sounds exciting and 
interesting to you, stop by Kettler llOE and ask for moft 
details. 



AUGUST 19. 1985 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK - PAGE 5 



It's time to Rock 

back into class with 
Wooden Nickel Records! 

We Feature The Top 50 For ^5.99 or Less 
IMIGHT RANGER POWER STATION TOM PETTY 




"7 WISHES" 

S4.gg 



L.P. ONLY 



SELECTED NEW 



COMPACT DISCS— 

9.99 



Phil Collins: "No Jacket Required" 

Prince: "Around the World in 
a Day" 

Howard Jones: "Dream into Action" 



"THE POWER STATION 33 1/3" 

^A 99 

^» ■ ** ** L.P. ONLY 

MICK JAGGER 

MICKJAGGER 

SHE'S THE DOSS 




Prices good through 
August 1 B. 1 985 

NEW 
SPECIALS 
WEEKLY 



3208 N.Cresent Ave. 



"SHE'S THE BOSS" 

^A 99 

^ ■ *# %# L.P. ONLY 

Wooden 

Nickel 

Records 



TOM PETTYSl'HEASTBREAKERS 




Soiithc nt AccCfll^i 



"SOUTHERN ACCENTS" 



L.P. ONLY 



collect 

WOODEN 
NICKLES 

and save 

'5 Album or Tape credit 
for each 1 tokens 
Receive 1 tol&lt;en with 
each Album, Tape or 
CD purchased for "5 



484-3635 



3627 N. Clinton 



For latest 

new release 

information 

call 

484-2451 



484-2451 



PAGE6— THE STUDENTS'HANDBOOK —AUGUST 19, 1985 



Indiana University 



A statement of students' rights and responsibilities 



SECTION I. STUDENT RIGHTS 
AND RESPONSIBILITIES 

1.1 Students should have accurate and plainly stated 
information relating to the maintenance of acceptable 
academic standing, graduation requirements, and in- 
dividual course objectives and requirements (see the IPFW 
BuUetin). 

1 .2 Student records will be maintained in keeping with the 
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, further 
amendments and the HEW guidelines for implementation. 

1.3 In all academic evaluations, and in instances of 
academic discipline, the student has the right to fair and 
impartial treatment. 

1.4 

(a) Students may establish, issue, and distribute — 
consistent with appropriate regulations concerning the 
time, place, and manner of distribution — student-directed 
publications which are in no way published under the 
auspices of the university and are published without any 
financial support from the university. Such regulations 
shall not be designed to restrict student access to these 
publications on university property. 

(b) Student-directed publications which are published 
under university auspices shall be free of censorship. The 
university shall honor this freedom by publicly recognizing 
and protecting the student editors' and managers' right to 
establish editorial policies — within the bounds of 
prevailing legal standards and standards of journalism. 
Specifically, shident editors or managers may not be 
suspended or removed in response to pressure by external 
groups disagreeing with their editorial policies. 

1.5 Students have the right to freedom from unlawful 
discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or 
national origin. 

1.6 Students shall have the opportunity to participate in 
the formulation of policy directly affecting students 
through membership on appropriate committees as 
determined by the chancellor and the president of the 
university. 

1.7 Students should be free from illegal searches and 
seizures. 

1.8 

(a) The university will not interfere with the rights of 
students to join associations which promote their common 
interests as students. 

(b) Student organizations holding a fiscal-lt^al 
relationship with the university are subject to university 
policies, procedures, and regulations pertaining to such 
organizations. 

1.9 

(a) Indiana University considers freedom of inquiry and 
discussion essential to a student's educational develop- 
ment. Thus, the university recognizes the right of all 
students to engage in discussion, to exchange thought and 
opinion, and to speak, write, or print freely on any subject, 
in accordance with the guarantees of federal and state 
constitutions. This broad principle is a cornerstone of 
education in a democracy. 

(b) For their programs student groups on the campus 
may freely select persons they wish to invite as guest 
speakers or performers. There are no restrictions on the 
point of view expressed by speakers other than those im- 
posed by national or state law. The invitation to an outside 
speaker does not imply approval or sponsorship of the 
speaker's views by the university nor by the group inviting 
the speaker. 

(c) University facilities are designed to accommodate the 
scheduled activities of the university, to accommodate the 
extracurricular activities of student groups, and to ac- 
commodate visitors and guests of the university. From 
time to time, as extraordinary requests may justify, 
facilities may be made available for programs of various 
kinds sponsored by non-university groups, especially for 
charitable or civic purposes. 

(d) The university does not make its facilities available 
for fund-raising purposes if the funds are designated to 
enrich an individual or commercial sponsor. 

( e) The universi^'s facilities ordinarily will be 
unavailable for the purpose of providing entertainment of a 
kind that is available in the outside community and is 
competitive with it. 

(f) The university reserves the right to control its 
facilities to assure that events held are compatible with its 
prime purpose of serving the university community by 
making available to it programs that appear to enhance its 
cultural and educational opportunities. 

tg) The university will at all times seek to assure student 
and faculty groups the opportunity to meet and to hear and 
exchange ideas and views, however controversial, but it 
does not license and will not tolerate what is illegal. 

1.10 Students are free to engage in peaceful and orderly 
protest, demonstration, and picketing which does not 
disrupt functionsof the university. 

l.il Students have the right to freely exercise their full 



rights as citizens. In this light, the university affirms the 
right to students to exercise their freedoms without 
university interference or fear of university sanction for 
such activity. 

1.12 As members of the academic community, students 
have an obbgation to that community and to the preser- 
vation of the academic process. As citizens, students have 
the responsibility to know and obey the laws of the United 
States, the State of Indiana, and of local governments. 
Student status in no way exempts them from the 
requirements of obeying such laws. 

1.13 

(a) Thefollowingactionsconstitutemisconduct for which 
stijdents may be penalized, by such sanctions as described 
in 1.13 (c), when committed on university property; 

(1) Actions which endanger the stiident, the university 
community, or the academic process. 

(2) Conduct that is made a crime by the criminal law of 
the State of Indiana or the United States of America, that 
takes place on university property or in the course of a 
university activity. 

(3) Academic dishonesty, such as cheating and 
plagiarism; knowingly furnishing false information; and 
forgery, alteration, or unauthorized use of university 
documents, records, identification, or property. 

(4) Intentional actions which obstruct, disrupt, or 
physically interfere with the use of university premises, 
buildings, rooms, or passages, or refusal to vacate a 
building, stireet, sidewalk, driveway, or other facility of the 
university when directed to do so by an authorized officer of 
the university having just cause to order the vacation. 

(5) Use of, or threatened use of physical force or 
violence to restrict the freedom of any person, or acting 
with violence, or aiding, abetting, encouraging, or par- 
ticipating in a riot or rioting, or inciting a riot, when the 
conduct occurs on university property or in the course of a 
university activity. 

(6) Initiation or circulation of a report or warning of an 
impending bombing, false alarm of fire, or other crime, 
emergency, or catastrophe, knowing that the report is 
false; or knowingly transmitting such a report to an official 
or to an official agency, or intentionally false reporting of a 
fire, or that a bomb or other explosive has been placed in 
any university building or elsewhere on university 
property. 

(7) Failure to comply with the directions of university 
officials and their authorized agents acting in the per- 
formance of their duties. 

(8) Possession or use of alcoholic beverages on any 
university property contrary to law; the possession or use 
of alcoholic beverages in any undergraduate residence 
supervised by the university; or the use or conspicuous 
possession of alcoholic beverages in or on any property of 
the university frequented by the public, 

(9) Possession of firearms or otherdangerous weapons on 
university property contrary to law; possession or display 
of any firearm on university property frequented by the 
public, except in the course of an authorized activity; or 
possession of weapons in residence halls on university 
property in violation of residence halls rules. 

(10) Intentional possession on university property of a 
dangerous article or substance as a potential weapon, or of 
any article or substance calculated to injure or discomfort 
any person without consent. 

(11) Possession or use of illegal fireworks, incendiary 
devices, or other dangerous explosives. 

(12) Possession or use of illegal drugs. 

(13) Intentional damage to or destruction of university 
property or of property on university premises belonging to 
others. 

(b) Actions not committed on university property may 
also be subject to penalties, provided that the offense 
relates to the securi^ of the university community or the 
integrity of the educational process (e.g., rape, arson, fraud 
...). 

(c) The scope of disciplinary sanctions which may be 
imposedonstijdents is as follows: reprimand; disciphnary 
probation; expulsion from university housing; suspension 
or expulsion from the university. In addition, academic 
misconduct may be punished by an academic sanction in 
the course in which the misconduct occurred. 

(d) The process for imposing academic and-or 
disciplinary sanctions shall be designed to accord stiidents 
the guarantees of due process and procedural fairness. 

(c) The university undertakes to ensure equal treatment 
of students subject to disciplinary or academic sanctions, 
and to impose similar sanctions for similar misconduct; 
provided, that the student's prior conduct record, if any, 
will be taken into consideration. 

SECTION n. DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES 

2.1 Applicability of Procedures 

A student charged with violating university rules of 
student conduct shall be punished only In accordance with 
the foUowing procedures. However, house and hall rules, 



motor vehicle regulations, and procedures under which 
those regulations are enforced, as well as procedure under 
which the university appUes its checklist to collect monies, 
continue in force, and adjudication of questions rising under 
them need not comply with the following procedures and do 
not apply to controversies that are amenable to those 
procedures. 

2.2 Notice 

( a ) Disciplinary action against a student shall be initiated 
by the dean of student services by the sending of a notice to 
the student. 

(b) The notice shall t&gt;e sent by certified mail to the 
student's address as it appears in the official records of the 
university or shall be delivered personally to the student. 
The notice shall quote the rule claimed to have been 
violated and shall fairly inform the student of the reported 
circumstances of the allegedly wrongful conduct. The 
notice shall require the student to appear in the office of the 
dean at a time and on a date specified (which ordinarily will 
not be earlier than seven days after the mailing of the 
notice) to discuss the alleged violation. 

(c) The notice shall inform the student of the following: 

(1) The offense the student is alleged to have committed 
by citing the relevant section of this code; 

(2) The date, time, and place of alleged commission, and 
other relevant circumstances; 

(3) The date, ti^me, and place of the conference to discuss 
the alleged violation; 

(4) That the student may have anadvisoror other counsel 
at the conference; 

(5) Thatthe student need not answer questions and that a 
choice to remain silent will not be taken as an admission of 
guilt; 

(6) That, if the student fails to appear for the conference, 
Uie dean may: (a) reschedule the conference; (b) dismiss 
the charges; or (c) if the dean reasonably believes the 
failure to be inexcusable, impose any of the disciplinary 
penalties described under Section I, paragraph 1.13 (c). 

(7) That many disciplinary penalties imposed under the 
circumstances noted in paragraph (6) above shall be 
subject to further hearing or appeal, but the fact of the 
shjdent's failure to appear at the conference, if unjustified, 
may be weighed as a factor in future hearings. 

2.3 Student's Response to Charge: Disposition Without 
Hearing 

(a) When the student appears as required, the dean shall 
inform the student as fully as possible of the facts alleged. 
The student may, but need not, make responses and ex- 
planations. 

(b) If. after discussion and such further investigation as 
may be necessary, the dean determines that the violation 
alleged is not supported by the evidence, the dean shall 
dismiss the accusation and notify the student. 

(c) If, after discussion, or if the student fails to appear, 
and if the dean is satisfied that the violation occurred as 
alleged, the dean shall so notify the student and shall 
propose a penalty by means of a written notice. The 
student, by such notice, shall be offered the choice either of 
consenting to the determination and proposed penalty or of 
requesting a hearing before a hearing commission. Should 
a student desire a hearing before a hearing commission, the 
request shall be made in writing and delivered to the dean 
on or before a date specified in the notice that proposes the 
penal^, which shall be a date no earlier than seven days 
after its maiUng. 

(d) If no written choice is received by the dean within the 
time specified, no hearing shall be held, the punishment 
proposed by the dean shall be imposed, and the action shall 
be considered final. 

2.4 Hearing 

(a) If a student requests a hearing, the dean shall make 
arrangements for the hearing ; but thereafter, with notice to 
the student, the dean may request the hearing commission 
(see 2.4 (b)) to dismiss the case. If a hearing is to take 
place, notice from the dean shall be sent by certified mail to 
the student's address as it tiien appears in the official 
records of the university or shall be delivered personally 
to the student. The notice shall inform the student of the 
following: 

( 1 ) the offense alleged to have been committed, by citing 
the relevant section of this code; 

(2) the date. time, and place of allied commission, and 
other relevant circumstances, including a summary of the 
evidence upon which the charges are based, the names of 
those who may be presented as witiiesses and-or whose 
statements would be offered as evidence at the hearing ; 

(3) the date, time, and place of the hearing, which shall 
not be earlier than ten days after the date of Uie notice; 

(4) that the student is entitied to be present with counsel 
or an advisor of his-her choice and to present witnesses and 
to cross-examine witnesses who appear; 

(5) that the university may also be represented by l^al 
counsel if it so elects; 

(6) that the student need not answer cmestions. and that a 

continued on page 7 



Rights 



continued from page 6 



choice to remain silent will not be taken as ao admission of 
guilt; 

i7) the penalties that may be imposed by the hearing 
commission; 

(8J that the hearing will be closed to the public, unless the 
student indicates in writing to the dean, at least five days in 
advance of the hearing, a desire to open the hearing to the 
public. The dean and the presiding officer of the hearing 
commission shall make arrangements satisfactory to the 
hearing commission to accommodate observers if a 
hearing is to be public, and the hearing commission's 
choice of place and determination of the number of ob- 
servers that can be conveniently accommodated is final; 

(9) that the failure to appear at the hearing will be action 
for which the hearing commission could impose any 
disciplinary sanction without right of further appeal if the 
hearing commission, upon diligent inquiry, finds such 
failure to be inexcusable. 

(b) A hearing shall be conducted before a hearing 
commission, appointed by the chancellor, which shall 
consist of three members: one student and two faculty 
membprs, one of the faculty to serve also as the presiding 
officer of the commission. Each hearing commission shall 
be constituted from a list of: 

(1) ten or more students appointed by the student body 
president upon recommendation of the student assembly or 
other appropriate representative body. 

(2) ten or more faculty members (to be representative of 
the various academic disciplines) to be appointed by the 
chancellor. 

(c) If any vacancy on the hearing list occurs because of 
the failure or refusal of the appropriate authorities to make 
recommendations to fill vacancies, the chancellor may 
make appointments, fill vacancies, or take such other 
action as is necessary to constitute the hearing list or any 
hearing commission. The members of the hearing com- 
mission shall hold office from the first day of the fall 
semester for a term of one year, but they shall complete the 
hearing of any case they have begun to consider. Members 
may be reappointed. 

(d) No hearing shall be held unless all members of the 
hearing commission are present. If any member of a 
hearing commission is unable to serve or should be excused 
from serving, another commission member shall be 
selected from the hearing list. 

(c) The presiding officer, in consultation with other 
members, shall maintain necessary order and shall make 
all rulings necessary for the fair, orderly, and expeditious 
conduct of the hearing. The hearing commission may ^ 
examine all witnesses. When it appears necessary to avoid 
undue hardship or to avoid injustice, the hearing com- 
mission may, in its discretion, grant a reasonable con- 
tinuance of the hearing. The hearing commission shall 
provide a taped transcript of all proceedings, which 
transcript shall be maintained for a period of one year. 

(ft Copies of all communications pertaining to the alleged 
offense from the dean of student services to a student whose 
case is pending shall be sent to the presiding officer. The 
dean of student services bringing charges and the student, 
or the student's advisor or other counsel, may present and 
examine witnesses, present other evidence, and may cross- 
examine witnesses. The student charged with an offense 
may testify, but shall not be ordered to testify by the 
hearing commission, nor shall failure to testify be con- 
sidered an admission of guilt. The burden of proving that 
the student has committed the offense or offenses as 
charged shall be upon the university. 

( g) The decision of the hearing commission shall be solely 
based upon matters introduced at the hearing and must be 
based upon substantial and convincing evidence. A decision 
shall be made by majority vote only, with all members of 
the commission voting. 

(h) The hearing commission shall make a finding 
whether the student has committed the offense (s), it shall, 
after a review of any disciplinary record the student may 
have, impose one of the disciplinary penalties enumerated 
under Section I. 1.13 (c), of this code. 

(i) Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing, the 
hearing commission shall render a written decision and 
include a brief explanation of the decision and set forth the 
findings of fact upon which the decision is made. The 
hearing commission shall promptly furnish copies of its 
decision to the student and the dean. 

2.5 Appeal 

(a) Thestudentor the dean may appeal the decision of the 
hearing commission to the review board established by 
paragraph 2.5 (c) below. An appeal may be initiated by 
filing a notice of appeal with the dean, including a 
memorandum stating the reason(s) for believing the 
decision improper, not later than seven days after the date 
of the written decision of the hearing commission, and the 
dean shall immediately forward the notice to the presiding 
officer of the review board and the student involved (if 
necessary ) . 

I b) The student shall be notified by the dean: 

(1) of the date, time, and place of the appeal hearing; 

(2) that either may submit written statements to the 



review board and to one another, before the appeal 
hearing ; 

(3) that, at the hearing, either may make oral arguments 
based on the record to the review board, or that the 
respective advisor or other counsel may do so; 

(4j that the appeal hearing will be closed to the public, 
unless otherwise requested by the student at least five days 
before the hearing; 

[3» that the review board will not accept additional 
evidence, but will consider only the record of the previous ■ 
hearing. 

(c) The review board shall be composed of a student 
appointed by the appropriate president of the student body, 
a faculty member appointed by the Fort Wayne (Faculty) 
Senate, and an administrative officer appointed by the chief 
administrative officer of a campus. The administrative 
member shall serve as chair. 

(d) The members of the review board shall hold office 
from the first day of the fall semester for a term of one 
year, but they shall complete the review of any case which 
they have begun to consider. No member may serve more 
than two consecutive terms. If any vacancy on the review 
board occurs because of the failure or refusal of ap- 
propriate authorities to make recommendations to fill 
vacancies, the chancellor may make appointments to fill 
vacancies, or take such other action necessary to constitute 
the review board. 

(e) No hearing shall be held unless all members of the 
review board are present. If any member of the review 
board is unable to serve or should excuse himself -herself 
from serving, another review board member shall be ap- 
pointed in accordance with the provisions of sections (c) 
and (d) above. 

(f) The presiding officer of the review board, in con- 
sultation with other members, shall maintain necessary 
order and shall make aU rulings necessary for the fair, 
orderly, and expeditious conduct of the appeal hearing. 
Decisions by the review board shall be by majority vote 
only. 

(g) The review board will listen to the recorded tape of 
the hearing commission, and then on the basis of that and 
oral arguments, written statements, and a review of the 
evidence presented at the appeal hearing, the review board 
must render a decision within twenty days of the hearing 
and may: 

(1) Affurm the original decision which shall be effective 
as of the date specified by the hearing commission. 

(2) Affirm the original decisionj.and rethjce penalty) 
which shall be effective as of the date specified by the 
hearing commission. 

(3) Reverse the decision. 

(4) Disallow the decision and order a new hearing. 

(h) The decision of the review board shall be sent to the 
dean, who shall notify the student and proceed ap- 
propriately. 

2.6 Failure to Appear 

If a student notified to appear before the dean or before a 
hearing commission fails to comply and if the dean or the 
hearing commission reasonably believes that the violation 
occurred as alleged, the dean or the hearing commission 
shall so notify the student and shall propose an appropriate 
sanction by means of written notice. When an extension of 
time appears necessary to avoid undue hardship or in- 
justice, the dean may extend the time to enable a student to 
respond to an accusation or prepare a defense. 

2.7 Summary Action 

Summary suspension of a student and exclusion from 
university property may be imposed without the hearing 
procedure provided for in this Section, but only by the 
president of the university upon the recommendation of the 
chancellor. The president shall first be satisfied that the 
continued status as a student upon the campus seriously 
threatens harm to the student or to any other person or the 
property of the university or of others. A student so 
suspended may be required to leave the property of the 
university and may be notified that he-she will thereafter be 
treated as a trespasser if he-she returns. A student notified 
of such a suspension may, within ten days after receipt of 
such notice, request a hearing before a hearing com- 
mission, as provided in this Section, to determine whether 
the summary suspension is justified or whether the person 
should be reinstated. 

2.8 Whenever disciplinary action is initiated by the dean 
against a student under the age of eighteen, the dean shall 
make reasonable efforts to assure that the parent(s) or. 
where applicable, other legal guardian of the student is 
notified that the action is pending. 

SECTION HI. ACADEMIC DUE PROCESS 

Preamble 

Faculty and students alike have rights and respon- 
sibilities for learning, teaching, and scholarship within the 
entire university community. Academic functions are 
characterized by reasoned discourse, intellectual honesty, 
mutual respect, and openness to constructive change. In- 
dividuals must remain active in avoiding violations of 
academic ethics. 

3.1 Definitions of Academic Misconduct; Student 
Misconduct 

(at Cheating — Dishonesty of any kind with respect to 
examinations, course assignments, alteration of records, or 



AUGUST 19. 1985 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — PAGE 7 

illegal possession of examinations shall be considered 
cheating. 

It is the responsibility' of the student not only to at&gt;stain 
from cheating but, in addition, to guard against making'it 
possible for others to cheat. Any student who helps another 
student to cheat is as guilty of cheating as the student he or 
she assists. The student should also do everything possible 
to induce respect for the examining process and for honesty 
in the performance of assigned tasks in or out of class. 

(b) Plagiarism — Honesty requires that any ideas or 
materials taken from another source for either written or 
oral use must be fully acknowledged. Offering the work of 
someone else as one's own is plagiarism. The language or 
ideas thus taken from another may range from isolated 
formulas, sentences, or paragraphs to entire articles copied 
from books, periodicals, speeches, or the writings of other 
students. The offering of materials assembled or collected 
by others in the form of projects or collections without 
acknowledgment also is considered plagiaris m. Any ; 
student who fails to give credit for ideas or materials that 
he-she takes from another source is guilty of plagiarism. 

3.2 Faculty Responsibilities 

The faculty and the trustees of Indiana University have 
affirmed specific responsibilities of academic appointees. 
These responsibilities are contained in the Code of 
Academic Ethics which is included in the Indiana 
University Academic Handbook. The Code of Academic 
Ethics also provides procedures for enforcement of these 
responsibilities. These responsibilities include, among 
others: 

(1) A teacher will maintain a clear connection between 
the advance description and the conduct and content of 
each course presented to ensure efficient subject selection 
by students. 

(2) A teacher will clearly state the course goals and will 
inform students of testing and grading systems ; moreover, 
these systems should be intellectually justifiable and 
consistent with the rules and regulations of the academic 
division. 

(3) A teacher will plan and regulate class time with an 
awareness of its value for every student and wiU meet 
classes regularly. 

(4) A teacher will remain available to students and will 
announce and keep liberal office hours at hours convenient 
to students. 

(5) A teacher will strive to develop among students 
respect for others and their opinions by demonstrating his 
or her own respect for each student as an individual. 

(6) A teacher will strive to generate a proper respect for 
an understanding of academic freedom by students. At the 
same time a teacher will emphasize high standards and 
strive to protect students from irrelevant and trivial in- 
terruptions or diversions. 

(7) Since letters of evaluation written by a teacher may 
be uniquely important documents in both the academic and 
post-university life of a student, each teacher will strive to 
make such letters both candid and fair. 

3.3 Due Process for Academic Misconduct 

(a) Student Misconduct 

(DA faculty member who has evidence that a student is 
guilty of cheating or plagiarism shall initiate the process of 
determining the student's guilt or innocence. 

( 2) No penalty shall be imposed until the student has been 
informed of the charge and of the evidence upon which it is 
based and has been given an opportimity to present his 
defense. 

(3) If the faculty member finds the student guilty, he-she 
will assess a penalty within the class and shall promptly 
report the case in writing to the department chair and the 
academic head of the school or division. The penalty shall 
be in accordance with 3.4, the Actions section of Academic 
Due Process. 

(4 ) If the faculty member and the student cannot agree on 
the facts pertaining to the charge, or if a student wishes to 
appeal a penalty, the issue may be taken to the department 
chair. Each party will present his-her case to the chair who 
shall then call a meeting of all involved parties. If the issue 
is not resolved in the meeting with the chair, then either 
party may appeal the decision to the academic head of the 
school or division and the decision of the academic head to 
the dean of the faculty who shall convene an ad-hoc all- 
campus joint faculty and student academic review board 
from the appropriate academic disciplines, consisting of 
three faculty members appointed by the faculty Senate and 
two students appointed by the student body president 

(b) If a stiident believes that a faculty member has 
violated the Code of Academic Ethics, the student may 
initiate a complaint in accordance with the "Enforcement 
Procedures" specified in the Code of Academic Ethics. 
Such complaints should be brought to the attention of an 
appropriate chair or dean, or to the dean of the faculty or a 
deputy; the dean of the faculty shaU provide for con- 
fidential representations regarding such violations. 

3.4 Actions 

(a) A penalty affecting a student's grade in a course may 
be imposed by tiie faculty member in whose course the 
offense occurred. The faculty member is responsible for 
making proper notification to the department chair con- 
continued on page 8 



PAGE 8 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 19. 1985 

J[\10|ltS continued from page 7 

cemed and to the academic head of the school or division, 
who shall report the action taken to the dean of student 
services for inclusion in a confidential file designed to 
provide a record that will develop information concerning 
students who have repeated offenses. For cases of repeated 
violation, the dean, after api»'opriate review with the dean 
of the faculty, may initiate discipUnary action. 

(b) In cases of student academic miscwiduct, the 
following actiwis are reGommended: 

(1) A student's grade in a course will be lowovd when the 



student is found guilty of dishonesty on any assignment, 
examination, or paper. 

(2) An incomplete may be given in the course in the event 
any case cannot be resolved before final grades are due in 
the registrar's office. 

(3) Upon approval by the academic head of the school or 
division, the student may be transferred from the section in 
which the student is enrolled to another section of the same 
course. 

( 4) Cases jnvolving violations of academic ethics outside 

Purdue University 



of a class, such as the selling of term papers, must be 
referred to the dean of student services. 

(5) In cases where disciplinary violations under SerHon I, 
paragraph 13 (a), have occurred simultaneously with 
violations of academic conduct, the Section I offense will be 
heard according to the procedures in Section II, 
DiscipUnary Procedures. 

(6) By a two-thirds vote, the all-campus review board 
(see 3.3 (a) (4)) may recommend to the chancellor that the 
student be disenroUed from the academic or professional 
school in which the student is enrolled. 



A statement of students' rights and responsibilities 



PURDUE UNIVERSITY 

REGULATIONS GOVERNING STUDENT 

CONDUCT. DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS. 

AND APPEALS 

A. Authority, AppllcatloD, AmendmeDt 

1. Authority. These regulations are enacted pursuant to 
the authority conferred by the laws of the State of Indiana 
upon the Board of Trustees of Purdue University to do all 
acts necessary and expedient to put and keep Purdue 
University in operation and to make all rules and 
regulations required or proper to conduct and manage 
Purdue University, and pursuant to the mandate and 
authority of Chapter 273, and Chapter 4444 of the Acts of the 
Indiana General Assembly for the year 1969. 

2. Application. These regulations, as from time to time 
amended, shall apply to all undergraduate and graduate 
students of Purdue University and shall be deemed a part of 
the terms and conditions of the admission and enrollment of 
all students. In case of any conflict or inconsistencies with 
any other rules, regulations, directives, or policies now 
existing, these regulations shall govern. They shall be 
enforced by the president of the university. 

3. Amendments. These regulations, and any amendments 
hereto, shall take effect on a date prescribed by the Board 
of Trustees and shall remain in effect until rescinded or 
modified by the Board of Trustees. Amendments may be 
proposed at any time by the Purdue Student Association, 
University Senate, administrative staff, or by the Board of 
Trustees. 

4. AdapUtion for Regional Campuses. The administrative 



dean for regional campuses is hereby authorized and 
directed to make and promulgate revisions of these 
regulations, as appHed to the regional campuses, which are 
necessary because of the different student or faculty 
organizations or governments existing at the regional 
campuses. Such revisions shall be effective when approved 
by the president of the university. 

5. Definitions: 

"University activity" means any teaching research, 
administrative, disciplinary function, proceedings, 
ceremony or activity conducted by or under the authority of 
the university. 

"University property" means property owned, con- 
trolled, used, or occupied by the university. 

"Dean's office" means the dean of student services and 
any associate, assistant, or other person authorized to act 
for them. 

"Administrative action" means the issuance of an oral or 
written warning, admonition, reprimand, and-or use of 
counseUng procedures. 

"Disciplinary penalty" means expulsion, suspension, 
disciplinary prot&gt;ation, and other educationally sound 
sanctions. 

"Educationally sound sanctions" means sanctions other 
than disciplinary probation, suspension, probated 
suspension, or expulsion and are Umited to the following: 

Restitution — monetary payment for damages and-or 
theft committed in violation of Section B-2-(e). 

Work assignment — assignment of duties to correct 
destructive acts or behavior. 



"Obstruction or disruption of a university activity" 
means any unlawful or objectionable acts or conduct (i) 
which seriously threaten the ability of the university to 
maintain its facilities available for performance of its 
educational activities, or (2) which are in violation of the 
reasonable rules and standards of the university designed 
to protect the academic community from unlawful conduct, 
or (3) which present a serious threat to person or property 
of the academic community. Such phrase shaU include, 
without limitation of the foregoing general definition, the 
unlawful use of force or violence on or within any buildings 
or grounds owned, used, occupied or controlled by the 
university; using or occupying any such buildings or 
grounds in violation of lawful rules or regulations of the 
university, or for the purpose or with the effect of denying 
or interfering with the lawful use thereof by others; and 
injuring or harming any person or damaging or destroying 
the property of the university or the property of others, 
within such buildings and grounds. 

Educationally sound sanctions may be proposed in 
combination with other disciplinary actions. 

"Disciplinary probation" means a probationary student 
status imposed for a limited time as a result of an official 
determination of misconduct. In the event the student is 
found guilty (under the procedures set forth in these 
regulations) of subsequent charges of misconduct com- 
mitted during the period of disciplinary probation, records 
of such disciplinary probations shall be taken into con- 
sideration in determining the disciplinary penalty, if any, to 
continued on page 9 




^S mS^*^" Records and Cassettes 

^?S.%u.,oN Anchor Room Books Maplewood Plaza • Stellhom Rd. 



K\" 




y 



BEEF AND BEVERAGE 



SERVING LUNCH DAILY 

Monday through Friday ll:00a.m.-2:00p.ni. 

SERVING DINNER DAILY 

Monday through Thursday 5:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. 

Friday and Saturday 5:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m. 

-FULL BAR SERVICE AVAILABLE- 



OPEN SUNDAY beginning late September 

Full Bar Service Noon to 8 p.m. 



4111 Parnell, acms.s Tnim Cdliseuin 

MaslerCard, VISA, American E&lt;pi-cs.s and Cash Accepted 

(219) 483-2727 



J 




Purdue Indiana Theatre 
Announces Its 1985-86 Season: 



Tobacco Road by jack Kirkland 

Adapted from the novel by Erskine Caldwell 
October 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 24, 25 and 26 

Fool for Love by Sam Shephard 

November 22, 23, 29, 30, and 
December 5. 6 and 7 

Luther by John Osborne: February 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28 and March 1 
Barefoot in the Park by Neil Simon: April 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 24, 25 and 26 

All Performances At 8 p.m. In PIT. 

fciditions fix Tobicco Road will be Tuesday, Sept. 3 and Wednesday, Sept. 4 at 

7:30 p.m. in PIT Theatre. Director Larry L. Life is seeking an interracial cast 

of eight. 



^TAKl 


E A FRONT I 

sion of Music Present 

Chamber Singers Concert 


?OW SEAT 


The Divi 

Oct. 13 


5 Its Fall Events: 

8 p.m. Neir Recital Hall 


Oct. 21 


Jazz Band Concert 


8 p.m. Neff Recital Hall 


Oct. 27 


University Singers Concert 


8 p.m. Neff Recital Hall 


Nov. 7 


University Saxophone Quartet 


8 p.m. . Neff Recital Hall 


Nov. 11 


University Orchestra Concert 


8 p.m. Neff Recital Hall 


Nov, 12 


Community Band Concert 


8 p.m.' Performing Arts Center 


Nov. 16 


Tristate Honor Band Concert 


8 p.m. Neff Recital Hall 


Nov. 21 


Symphonic Winds Concert 


8 p.m. Neff Recital Hall 


Dec. 2 


Jazz Band Concert 


8 p.m. Neff Recital Hall 


Dec. 5, 6, 7 


Dickens Dinner 


6 p.m. Walb Ballroom 


Dec. 8 


Dickens Dinner 


Auburn, Indiana - 



Rights 



continued from page 8 



be imposed or the administrative action, if any, to be taken 
because of such subsequent misconduct. 

"Probated suspension" means conditional continuation 
of student status for a limited and defined period of time. 
The student is permitted to retain student status upon the 
condition that the student does not further violate any 
subsection of Section B-2 that would normally result in a 
disciplinary penalty during the time probated suspension is 
in effect. If. during the period of probated suspension, the 
student is found guilty of an additional violation of Section 
B-2 after a hearing, suspension may become immediately 
effective and may be extended for a longer period of time 
than the period of probated suspension originally assigned. 

"Suspension" means termination of student status for a 
limited time, generally without grades; however, in cases 
such as academic dishonesty, a directed grade for a par- 
ticular course may be appropriate. 

"Expulsion" means permanent termination of student 
status, generally without grades; however, in eases such as 
academic dishonesty, a directed grade for a particular 
course may be appropriate. 

B. Student Conduct 

1. General. Students are expected and required to abide 
by the laws of the State of Indiana and of the United States 
and the rules and regulations of Purdue University, to 
conduct themselves in accordance with accepted standards 
of social behavior, to respect the rights of others, and to 
refrain from any conduct which tends to obstruct the work 
of the university or to be injurious to the welfare of the 
university. A student who violates these general standards 
of conduct may be subject to administrative actions (as 
defined in Section A-5). If the violation falls within one of 
the categories of misconduct listed in Section B-2, the 
student may also be subject to disciplinary penalties (as 
defined in Section A-5). No disciplinary penalty may be 
imposed except for misconduct covered by one of the 
categories listed in Section B-2. 

2. Misconduct Subject to Disciplinary Penalties. The 
following actions constitute misconduct for which students 
may be subject to administrative action or disciplinary 
penalties, a. Dishonesty in connection with any Universi^ 
activity. Cheating, plagiarism, or knowingly furnishing 
false information to the university are examples of 
dishonesty. 

The commitment of the acts of cheating, lying, stealing, 
and deceit in any of their diverse forms (such as the use of 
ghost-written papers, the use of substitutes for taking 



examinations, the use (rf illegal cribs, plagiarism, and 
copying during examinations) is dishonest and must not be 
tolerated. Moreover, knowingly to aid and abet, directly or 
indirectly, other parties in committing dishonest acts is in 
itself dishonest 

b. Forgery, alteration, or the unauthorized use of 
university documents, records or identification. 

c. Obstruction of disruption of any university activity (as 
defmed in Section A-5) or inciting, aiding, or encouraging 
other persons to engage in such conduct. If substantial 
obstruction or disruption is threatened or occurs, the 
president, or a designee, may issue a disciplinary 
suspension warning. The minimum disciplinary penalty for 
violation of this subsection during the period of such war- 
ning shall be suspension for the remainder of the semester 
(or summer session) during which the offense occurred and 
for the next full academic semester and any intervening 
summer session thereafter. However, a more severe 
disciplinary penalty may be imposed. 

d. Physical abuse of any person or conduct which 
threatens or endangers the health or safety of any other 
person, whether or not such conduct occurs on university 
property. 

e. Theft, attempted theft, or damage of or to property of 
the university or of a member of the university community 
or campus visitor. 

f. Unauthroi2ed entry, or use, or occupancy of university 
facilities. __ 

g. Violation of any university rule governing student 
organizations, or the use of university property (including 
the time, place, and manner of meetings or demonstrations 
on university property), or of any other university rule 
which is reasonably related to the orderly operation of the 
university; provided, however, that no disciplinary penalty 
shall be imposed in any such case unless it is shown that the 
accused student knew, or, in the exercise of reasonable 
care, should have known, of the rule in question. 

h. Use. possession, or distribution of narcotics or 
dangerous drugs, except as expressly permitted by law. 

i. Lewd, indecent, or obscene conduct or expression on 
university property. 

j. Failure to comply with directions of university officials 
acting in the performance of their duties. 

k. Any conduct which substantially threatens or in- 
terferes with the maintenance of appropriate order and 
discipline in the operation of the university, or any conAict 
on university property or in connection with a universi^ 
activity which invades the rights of others. 

3. Demonstratiffiis. Any individual or group activity or 
conduct, apparently intended to call attention to the par- 




booooooooo. 



OOOOOO 



O 
O 
O 
O 

00000000000000"^ 



ideo 



5715 St. Joe Road 

Marketplace of Canterbury 

Fort Wayne, Indiana 46815 

(2)9| 485-5120 

FOR THE BEST IN VIDEO ENTERTAINMENT 



o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 

O' 

o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 



Member: 

1 Night - 2.00 

2 Nights - 3.00 

3 Nights - 4.00 

Mon.-Wed. 2nd One 

1/2 Price 

Dollar Day Every 

Month 



Non-Member: 

1 Night - 3.00 

2 Nights - 4.00 

3 Nights - 5.00 



V.C.R. Rentals 5 

1 Night 9.95 (ind. l movie) Q 

2 Nights 19.95 (ind. 2 movies) Q 

3 Nights 24.95 (md. 3 movies) q 

1 Week 29.95 (no movies) r^ 



Your QUASAR Connection 
For Unbeatable Prices!! 

Quasar Super GT Blank Tape O 

Bring In Your Current Student 

I.D. Before 9/15/85 And Receive A 

Free Membership (19.95 Value) 

Mon.-Sat. 10-9; Sun. 12-7 

Open Sunday 




AUGUST 19, 1985 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK - PAGE 9 
tidpants' point of view on some issues, is not of itself 
misconduct. Demonstrations which do not involve conduct 
beyond the scope of constitutioaally-protected rights of free 
speech and assembly are, of course, permissible. However, 
conduct whi^h is otherwise improper can not be justified 
merely because it occurs in the context of a demonstration. 
Demonstrations which involve violations of any subsection 
of Section B-2, will not be permitted. A student will be 
charged with misconduct for any individual misconduct 
committed by the student in the course of a demonstration. 

s. Status During Disciplinary Proceedings, Except where 
summary action is taken as provided in Section C-?, the 
status of a student charged with misconduct shall not be 
affected pending the final disposition of charges, provided, 
however, that no diploma shall be given and no grades, 
academic credit, or degree shall be awarded to a student 
against whom charges are pending for which a disdpUnary 
penalty may be imposed. The effective date of any 
disciplinary penalty shall be a date established by the final 
adjudicating body (the dean's office of the campus appeals 
board). In case of suspension or expulsion, the student shall 
not be withdrawn any earlier than the date the notice of 
charges originated or later than the effective date 
established by the final adjudicating body. 

6. Misconduct Subject to Other Penalties, As provided in 
Chapter 273 of the 1969 Acts of the Indiana General 
Assembly, misconduct which constitutes a violation of 
these rules and regulations may be punished after deter- 
mination of guilt by the procedures herein provided without 
regard to whether such misconduct also constitutes an 
offense under the criminal laws of any state or of the United 
States of whether such conduct might result in civil UabUity 
of the violator to other persons. 

C. Procedures in Student Misconduct Cases 

1. Disciplinary and Administrative Action Proceedings, 
General. 

a. The procedures hereby established shall be followed in 
all cases in which the university institutes disciplinary 
proceedings or administrative action proceedings against 
students for violations of the rules of student conduct set 
forth in Section B. These procedures shall not apply to or 
affect the jurisdiction or procedures estabhshed by student 
organizations or similar organizations. 

b. Disciphnary proceedings are those proceedijigs 
initiated by the issuance of a notice of charges and are 
governed by the provisions of Section C-1 to 7 inclusive. The 
term "disciplinary proceedings" does not include ad- 
ministrative action proceedings. 

c. Administrative action proceedings are informal in- 

continued from page 10 



MAKE 
COIMTACT 



A variety of topics offered for the considerations 

of students, faculty, clergy, and interested 

community partJcipant5. 

Wednesday " 1 2:00-1 ;30 p.m. 

Walb Memorial Union Building * Columbia Room, G21 

Sept. 11 M. Ann Dirkes, Ph.D. 

Education Department. IPFW 
"Student Academic Self-Direction: 
A Social Concern" 
Oct 9 Bishop John M. D'Arcy 

Bishop of the Diocese Fort Wayne- 
South Bend 

■■Spiritual Life on Today's Campus" 
Nov. 20 Van Coufoudakis, Ph.D. 

Political Science Department, IPFW 
"Challenge and Prospects for Anns Control" 
Dec. 11 William Bruening, Ph.D. 

Philosophy Department IPFW 
"The Ethics of Neonatology: 
The Baby Doe Case" 
Jan. 8 John Krueger, M. Div. 

Pastor, Peace United Church of Christ 
"Christian Theologies: Are We Really As 
Different As We Think We Are?'' 
Feb. 5 Mohammed Fazel, Ph.D. 

Psychology Department IPFW 
"A Unique Perspective on Religion" 
March 12 Rose Taul, D. Min. 

Pastor, Bethany Presbyterian Church 
"Central America^' 
April 9 Clifford Scott 

History Department IPFW 
"Reflections on the Vietnam War" 
A simple lunch is served at 12:00 noon 
EVERYONE WELCOME 

CAMPUS MINISTRY 

Rev. IVIargaret McCray-Worrall 

Stop by and get acquainted. 

We're here for youl 

IPFW Walb Union Bldg. Rooms 221 A &amp; B 

483-8291 



_^«natmi jolnHy by Creatrr Tort Wqnt C«apiu Mtetotey, Int. «nd TW Wocttt of fvn Wqae-Soth Bead, lac 



PAGE 10-THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK— AUGUST 19. 19K 
JVlSm^ continued from page 9 

vesligations conducted by the dean's office with a view to 
possible administrative action. Administrative action may 
oe tanen by the dean s office without instituting disciplinary 
proceedings, and such action shall be final and not subject 
to further hearing or appeal. A disciplinary penalty may not 
be imposed without first instituting disciplinary 
proceedings pursuant to Section C-2. If the dean's office 
confers with the student in the course of administrative 
action proceedings, no statement made by the student 
during such conference shall be used against the student in 
any disciplinary proceedings which may thereafter be 
instituted. 

2. Institution of DlscipUoary Proceedings. 

a. DiscipUnary proceedings shall be instituted by the 
dean's office by the issuance of notice of charges. 

b. The notice of charges (and all other written notices 
given to students against whom discipUnary proceedings 
are initiated) shall be delivered by the most effective 
method to the student's address as it then appears on the 
official records of the university. The notice shall inform 
the student of the rule or regulation allegedly violated.also 
fairly inform the student of the reported circumstances of 
the alleged violation, and request the student to appear in 
the dean's office for a hearing on the incident. A copy of 
these regulations shall accompany each notice of charges. 
A copy of the notice of charges may be sent to the parent or 
guardian of the student if the student is dependent as 
defined in Section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. 

3. Failure to Respond to Charges. If the notice of chaises 
requests the student to appear in the dean's office and the 
student fails or refuses to appear, the dean's office may, 
after such investigation as it may deem necessary, 
dismiss the charges, take administrative action, or im- 
pose a disciphnary penalty. If the dean's office takes ad- 
ministrative action, it shall notify the student in writing of 
such action, and such action shaU not be subject to further 
hearing or appeal. If the dean's office imposes a 
disciplinary penalty, it shall notify the student in writing of 
such action, and the student may appeal such action to the 
campus appeals board as provided in Section C-6. When it 
appears necessary to avoid undue hardship or to avoid 
injustice, the dean's office may extend the time to enable a 
student to respond to the charges. 

4. Response to Charges. 

a. If the student appears in response to the notice of 
charges for the purpose of a hearing (rf the alleged violation 
as provided in Section C-5, the dean's office shall advise the 
student as fully as possible of the facts concerning the 
alleged charges and the names and addresses of witnesses 
then known to the dean's office. The student shall also be 
advised that no response is required, that any statement 
made by the student may be used against the student, that if 
the student remains silent, that silence will not be taken as 
an admission against the student, and that the student may 
advise the dean's office of any witnesses or evidence sup- 
porting the student's position. The dean's office shall also 
advise the student that if any new information is discovered 
during an investigation subsequent to the hearing, the 
student will have an opportunity to respond to such in- 
formation. 



b. After the hearing with the student and such further 
investigation as the dean's office deems necessary, the 
dean's office shall proceed as follows: 

1. If the dean's office determines that the violation 
alleged is not supported by the evidence, the charges shall 
be dismissed and the student notified. 

2. If the dean's office is satisfied that the violation oc- 
curred as alleged, but that no disciplinary penalty shall be 
imposed, the dean's office may take administi-ative action 
and notify the student. Such action by Uie dean's office shall 
be final and not subject to further hearing or appeal. 

3. If the dean's office is satisfied that the violation oc- 
curred as alleged and that a disciplinary penalty should be 
imposed, the dean's office shall so notify the student. 

5. Conduct of Hearing. Each hearing shall be conducted 
before one or more members of the dean of students office 
staff and, although the hearing is informal in nature, it shall 
provide the student certain procedural safeguards. 

The student shall be given the opportunity to hear the 
evidence against him-her, rebut statements made by 
witnesses, present witnesses, evidence, or any relevant 
information in the student's own behalf. The student shall 
also be given the opportunity to respond to any new in- 
formation gathered during an investigation subsequent to 
the hearing. The dean of student's office has the burden of 
proving the student guilty of the alleged violation, and the 
lecision of the dean's office shall be based solely on in- 
formation intiroduced at the hearing and obtained during 
subsequent investigations. 

No person other than the student shall be present during 
the discussion between the dean's office and the student 
except by mutual agreement of the dean's office and the 
student. 

Within five days following the conclusion of the hearing 
and subsequent investigation, the dean's office shall notify 
the student, in writing, of what action it will take. The 
decision letter shall contain a finding as to the guilt or in- 
nocence of the student and a brief statement of the reasons 
for the decision. Any disciplinary penalty imposed or ad- 
ministrative action taken is subject to the provisions of 
Section B-4 of this regulation and any other university rule, 
regulation, or directive then existing. 

6. Appeal of the Dean's Office Decision. The student may 
appeal the decision of the dean's office to the campus ap- 
peals board. An appeal may be initiated by filing a notice of 
appeal with the campus appeals board through the dean's 
office or with the chair of the campus appeals board. Such 
an appeal must be filed within seven days of the date on 
the letter from the dean's office containing the decision, and 
the appeal must be personally signed by the student. The 
dean's office will provide the campus appeals board with a 
copy of the notice of charges and the decision letter sent to 
the student. The university will be represented at the ap- 
peal hearing by the dean's office or other appointed 
representative. 

7. Summary Action. Summary disciplinary action by way 
of temporary suspension and exclusion from university 
property may be taken against a student charged with 
misconduct witiiout the issuance of a notice of charges and 
without the procedures prescribed in Section C on the 
following conditions: Summary action shall be taken only 
by Uie president of the university or by an authorized vice 
president of the university, and only after Uie student shall 
have been given an opportunity to be heard if such 



procedure is practical and feasible under the cir- 
cumstances. Summary action shall be taken only if the 
president or vice president is satisfied that the continued 
presence of the student on university property threatens 
harm to the student or to any others. Whenever summar&gt;' 
action is taken under this Section C-7. the procedures 
provided for in Section C for hearing and appeal shall be 
expedited so far as possible in order to shorten the period of 
summary action. 
D. The Campus Appeals Board 

1. Organization and Jurisdiction. 

A campus Appeals board shall be established for each 
campus of the university. 

2. Conduct of Appeal 

a. The campus appeals board may prescribe regulations 

governing the conduct of the appeals not inconsistent with 
these regulations. The appeal hearing shall be open to the 
public or closed as the campus appeals board shall deter- 
mine. If a hearing is to tie open to the public, the campus 
appeals board may change the place of hearing, and its 
determination of the place and of the number of advisors 
and ot&gt;servers that can be convenienUy accommodated 
shall be final. Notice of a change of place shall be given 
promptly to the student. An official tape recording shall be 
made of the appeal which shall be kept by the campus 
appeals board for at least one year. 

The student is entitled to be present at the appeal and to 
be accompanied by advisors of the student's choice. The 
student may also be represented by legal counsel, provided 
he-she files a statement of such intention, giving the name 
and address of such counsel to the chair or secretary of the 
campus appeals board at least 48 hours before the time of 
the hearing. If the university intends to be represented at 
such hearing by legal counsel, the accused student shall be 
notifiedof that in writingat least 72 hours before the time of 
the hearing. If the student has given such notice and is 
entiticd to be represented by legal counsel, the university 
may also be represented by legal counsel regardless of any 
previously expressed intention to the contrary. The student 
shall have the right to confront and cross-examine wit- 
nesses and to present witnesses and evidence in the 
student's behalf. At the hearing, the burden of proving the 
student guilty of the alleged violation shall be on the 
university. The campus appeals board shall consider any 
evidence relevant to the incident. 

b. The campus appeals board shall decide the appeal and 
issue its written decision within ten days after the date of 
the appeal hearing, except where the president of the 
university authorizes additional time. Copies of its decision 
shall be furnished to the student, the president's office, and 
the dean's office. 

If the decision being appealed found Uie student guilty 
and imposed a disciphnary penalty, the campus appeals 
board shaU have the power either: 

— To reverse the finding and acquit the student 

— To affirm the finding and Uie disciplinary penalty 
proposed by the dean's office. 

— To affirm the finding and in cases where a proposed 
disciphnary penalty is beUeved inappropriate to the 
misconduct, to reduce or increase the severity of the 
disciplinary penalty or to direct that appropriate ad- 
continued on page 11 




'Fitness Center 

Nautilus 
Equipment 



99 



00 



•Personal Instruction 
•Aerobic Classes ^ 
•Whirlpool 9 

•Sauna 

-^ pi 6 Month Membeship 

Bring In Your l.D, Or This Ad For Discount Price 



3030 N. Clinton (2 19) 482-4257 

Save That Summer Tan With 

Our Tanning Boot/if 



MISNOMER: 

The interdisciplinary course CREATIVE PROBLEM SOLVING in 
Contemporary Society (IDIS 100) is really for Seniors and Juniors 
(who made up most of the class last fall) as well as Sophomores and 
Freshmen. 

It is not for Freshmen only as it might appear from a cursory glance 
at the various publications in which it is currently listed. A follow- 
up honors course in the Spring, also open to all students by permis- 
sion, will tackle public issues presented to the class by elected of- 
ficials and other public leaders. 



Incense • Jewelry ' Gift Hems • Smoking 
and Other Accessories 



(219) 484-4711 



Hours: Mon. thru Fri. 10-9. Sat. 10-8, Sun. 12-5 

1014 Coliseum Blvd. East Ft. Wayne, In. 46805 



IVl^lllS (Continued from page 10) 

ministrative action be taken by the dean's office in lieu of 

any disciplina ry penalty, 

3. Appeals fromTbe Dean's Office. The campus appeals 
board shall hear each case appealed from the dean's office 
and the procedures to initiate such appeals shall be as 
provided in Section C-6. 



4. Appeals ConcernlDg RecognitloD of Stadeot 
OrganizatJoos. The campus appeals board shall have 
jurisdiction to hear and shall be required to hear any appeal 
taken by a student organization which the dean's office has 
refused to recognize or from which recognitioQ has been 
withdrawn. In such cases, the campus appeals board shall 
either affirm or reverse the decision, and its action shall be 



AUGUST 19. 1965 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — PAGE \ 1 

Onal. 
5. Appeals from Student Sapreme Court. The campus 

appeals board shall have discretionary jurisdiction to hear 
appeals from the student supreme court. In such cases, it 
may affirm or reverse a decision, and its action shall be 
final. 



Job Location 
services 

The job location service is a referral sa^ce for students 
seeking part-time employment off campus. We are located in 
Walb Memorial Union 113 (482-5647). 

Our listing of employment opportunities includes jobs of 
almost every type, skilled and unskiUed. Jobs that have been 
listed in the past range from housecleaning and waiter- 
waitress jobs to market researcher and lab technician. 
?articipation in a handyperson pool, babysitting pool, and 
typing pool is also open. Pay rates vary according to the job 
and the employer. Referrals are based upon individual 
employment skills and preferences. 



Greeks offer activities 



Disabled students' services 

Any student who has a physical disability or other im- 
pairments which may make academic achievement difficult 
should call 482-5580 or come to Athletic Center 204. 

The disabled student services office provides readers for 
the visually impaired, textbooks on cassette tape, notetakers 
and interpreters for the hearing impaired, outdoor escort 
service in inclement weather for persons in wheelchairs, 
orientation to the campus, exam proctoring, academic 
counseling, and use of special materials and equipment 
located in Athletic Center 207. 

All buildings on campus are accessible, and the 
wheelchair logo marks accessible interior facilities. 



College is a whirlwind of activity. In its boundaries lie 
opportunities leading to the new and unknown, op- 
portunities to help you grow and discover yourself and your 
potential. 

A college education is not just a four-year classroom 
experience, but also a time of personal growth and 
development. You'll meet all types of people and become 
exposed to all types of lifestyles. You may find much you 
once believed in to be challenged, and those things you once 
took for granted may no longer be so easily ignored. 

In the middle of this new-found activity, you may find 
yourself lost, with no place to turn for help. 

As a result, you may find it desirable to seek within the 
university a smaller community with which to share. A 
sorority or fraternity provides just this — a base from 
which you can become involved and grow. 

WitWn the Greek system, a special kind of growth takes 
place, one that is rarely found in any other campus activity. 
You learn about yourself through interactions and close 
friendships in your sorority or fraternity and among other 
Greeks, and can use these experiences as a foundation for 
participation in the many other facets of university life. 

In no other campus group does a community exist for the 
sole purpose of enhancing individuality. 

Through the Greek system, you are given a belter chance 
to become involved, to grow, and to develop lasting 
friendships. 

SCHOLARSHIP is what college is alt about. Greek 
organizations encourage members to grow intellectually 



Student 

identification 

cards 
open doors 



Each student is issued a picture identification card 
containing his-her name and Social Security Number. The 
student must provide accurate data for inclusion on the 
card, and must show the card to an employee of the 
university upon request. E^ior to showing the card, the 
student , if he or she asks, is entitled to be told the reason for 
the request and the employee's name and position, and be 
shown the employee's university identification card. 

The student identification card or card validation is given 
to each student at registration. The replacement fee for lost 
ID cards must be paid at the bursar's office. Replacement 
cards are issued from the dean of student services' office, 
SU 118, upon showing a paidreceipt. 

Here are some reasons why you need an ID : 

For identification purposes both on and off campus. 

Purdue-Indiana Theatre (PIT) discounts on per- 
formances. 

For check-cashing in the Bursars office or the Sweet 
Shoppe 

Use of the Child Care Center. 

Use of the Arts and Crafts room. 

To refund books at Follett's Bookstore. 

Discounts at area businesses and elsewhere in the com- 
munity. 

For reserving study rooms and checking out materials at 
the library. 

Entrance into Student Government events {movies, 
dances, parties). 

Use of the Athletic Center. 

Admittance into Athletic events. 
I 




OF WASHINGTON SQUARE 

5937 N. Clinton (219) 482-3795 

Hours: M-T-Th-F 9:30-5:30 Wed. 9:30-8:00 Sat. 9:30-12:00 



'Airline Reservations 
&amp; Tickets 
' Amtrak Tickets 
'Cruises &amp; Tours 
"Instant Passport Photos 
"Motel &amp; Resort Information 



* Business &amp; Group Travel 
' Charters 

'Family &amp; Sport Vacations 
'O'Hare Express Tickets 
'Travel Insurance 



'Professional Service At No Additional Cost* 



and to achieve academic excellence, with the aid of 
scholarship committees and study buddies. 

LEADERSHIP experiences offered by the Greek system 
at IPFW range from chapter and Panhellenic Council of- 
fices to committees and student government. 
Encouragement to get involved with activities is supplied 
by many of theGreek organizations to their members. 

ACTIVITIES for Greeks at IPFW include a variety of 
social events which give many fun-filled memories as well 
as the experience of being part of your school's activities. 
The events range from formal to informal dances, 
fraternity socials, Greek week, and the annual Harbor 
Arbor Day Festival and Three Rivers Festival. 

The list of social events and the opportunities to meet new 
friends and develop social awareness and skills are sub- 
stantial. 

PHILANTHROPICS are an important part of Greek life, 
Each organization has a national philanthropy which it 
supports. Members are asked to donate their time for 
service and to help raise money for their charity. A suc- 
cessful philanthropic endeavor takes dedication, patience 
and time, but rewards every member of the chapter. 

There are two sororities — Pi Beta Phi and Delta Gamma 
— and three fraternities — Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Kappa 
Theta, and Delta Sigma Pi. 

Rush information will be available at the student services 
office in Walb Memorial Union after August 23. 

GO GREEK! 



PREGNANT? 
WORRIED? 

WE'LL HELP! 

Free pregnancy testing. 

Confidential, professional counseling. 

Call... 

BIRTHLIIME 
422-1818 





mickcr; 

^^ THE COMEDY BAR! 



THE HOTTEST NEW 
COMEDIANS 

from around the country are appearing weekly 

at Snickerz In The Marketplace of Canterbury. 

Wed. &amp; Thurs. 8:00 with $3.00 Cover 

Fri. S, Sat. 8:00 &amp; 1 0:00 with $4.00 Cover 

This week 



August 21-24 AMAZING JOHNATHON 

from Late Night with David Letterman 
&amp; HBO Comedy Laugh-Offs 



THURSDAY NIGHT - STUDENT NIGHT 



2 ADMISSIONS FOR 

PRICE OF 1 
WITH STUDENT I.D. 

For Reservations Call 
486-0216 





PAGE 12 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 19. 1985 

r— Sweet fantasies in Walb- 




The Sweet Shoppe located on the first floor in the Walb 
Memorial Student Union offers more than candy and tobacco 
products, such as: 

1. Check cashing service to students, faculty and staff. 

2. General Cinema and Mailers Spirou discount movie 
Uckets. 

3. Paper products, markers, pens, pencils, cough drops, 
aspirin, postage stamps, University post cards, CSSAC cook- 
books. 

4. The Journal Gazette and Wall Street Journal 
newspapers. 

Located next to the Sweet Shoppe is the Music Eloom. This 
room can be used for study time, listening to music, or 
reserved for meetings. There is a piano on this floor for 
student use. 

On the lower ground level is the Pool Room (Billiards). 
Included within the pool room is a video game room (10 
games) and a ping pong room, 

Also on this floor is the cafeteria, television room, and the 
OWL bank. 

We encourage you to use these facilities. 



m -- 




Candy, pretzels, newspapers, school supplies, t-shirts, and cough drops are just a few of the goodies 
stocked in the Sweet Shoppe on the first floor of the Walb Memorial Union. 



Students' Government welcomes you 



A warm welcome to all 
new students, and to 
returning students of IPFW. 
Because education is only a 
part of your college life, it is 
very worthwhile for those of 
you who have some extra 
time to get involved with 
campus activities. There are 
over 50 student 

organizations, a fine theatre 
department, a large and still 



growing athletic program, 
and many other activities at 
IPFW. 

Students' Government is 
the official voice of the 
student body. There are two 
branches of the Students' 
Government; the Student 
Senate and the Student 
Union of Governors. The 
Student Senate is the 
legislative branch of 



Students' Government which 
handles: student concerns, 
improving university policy, 
lobbying for students, and 
allocation of student service 
fee monies. The Student 
Union Board of Governors is 
the cultural and activity 
branch of Students' 
Government which plans: 
the weekly movie series, 
parties, dances, trips (in- 



cluding the Florida Spring 
Break trip), lectures, and 
concerts. Both branches of 
Students' Government are 
always interested in new 
members. We are located in 
room 225 of the Walb 
Memorial Union Building. 
Students pay a fee of $2.25 
per credit hour with a 
miximum of $20.00. The 
following dollar and cents 



breakdown represents the 
allocation for the 1985-86 
budgets: 

$1.13 - Athletic Depart- 
ment (11 intercollegiate 
sports, intramurals, and 
dept. operations) 

.01 - Department of Fine 
Arts 

.18 - Day Care Center (The 
user is also charged to help 
defer the cost of equipment. 



supplies, wages, etc.) 

.09 - Purdue-Indiana 
Theatre 

.03 Indiana-Purdue 

Forensic League 

.07 - Student Activity Of- 
fice Account 

.38 - Student Government 
Offlce Account 

.32 - SUBOG 

.04 - Division of Music 

$2.25 total. 



Confidentiality Statement 



"FAMILY EDUCA- 



The Unwererty hae the responsiWity tor etfectJvB^y supervising the release of 
data-mforniawn about fcs students The offices and deperirnerts of the 
Unhrereitv, wtich conect and mantan academic, financial, academic acfwar^, 
personal coinsaJinB, disciplinary, placement, ar&gt;d otfier nformaoon about 
students efio* edhere to tJie foUowrip poicy m regard to ttie release of data- 
intormatjon about etudenta and shal devebp speatic operatang procedures, 
wfichere consistent with ttiese pObces 

DcnNrnoNS: 



For purposes of this poicy. a student of Indiana Unwersrty-Purdue University 
at Fort Woyne is a person who has made official eppfcabon to the Urwersity. 
prosncthra •tudwtt; or wtM&gt; has attended in the past, but is not currenuy 
enroliad for academK: work, currsnt «ud«nt. 
Oatum - A fact. 
tntormaxion 

Data which fiave been processed to provide the answer to a question of 

UnlvM^hy records on nudwtta 

OataHnformation about students ere collected and preserved (or dBsignated 
periods ol Dme for ttie expressed purposes of assistng m mainta^ng the 
various operations and fuxicDons of the Unversity and to better senm student 
needs TTie cunulative data-mformotjon about an mdMdoi student can be 
fixnd in severe! different University records wh»ch are located rn several dif- 
ferent nstrCutiond umts 

The dota-intormatJon about students that are part of the University's 
records Detang to the Umversitv as a corporouon and not the student or in- 
ctviduab and sub-unres that are a part ot the msotution. 
Pw«onal roconla on ■tudwito 

Wfifldual Ufiversity staff members collect data about students they deal 
wth m their work. These data-n formation wS be considered personal li they 
satisfy these cntene 

1 1 1 The staff member keeps the deta-rfDrmaoon separate fnxn Umversrty 
records end never sf^ares them witfi eny other person, and 

(11 1 takes the personal records wttti hm-her upon Jeavro tfw posiuyi or 
the UrntversJty 

POUCV STATEMENTS AND APPflOVALSi 
1 . Pubic Data-inlormabon 

A, The foUowi)Q Items are con5&lt;Jered puKc data-Hnformation and may be 
dscfcised by any staff rriember of the (Jnwersrtv m respc^ise to inqmnes 

concemmg individual students, whether the oiqury ism pe ■ 

mer the telephone 



TiOTQ, or 



(11 N 
3.T&gt;i 



[2] AffirmaDai ol whether currently admitted-enroBed and campus locaooi 

3. The foUowng items are considered piiihc mformatoi ^v3 mav be nduded 
r appTDpneta Umversity-Campus drectories and pub(icetK»is Also, they may 
be dsdosod by desgnaced staff members on each campus in resoonse to in- 
quries concsrnffig indmdual students, vithe^her the inqury is m person m 
wrung, or over the teiepnone. 

[31 Class level and fvil or pat-bme status 

[4] School-Colege or Onnscn 

[51 Dates ol EnroArnerx 

[6] Degrees received 

C. Unless the student has offiaaly filed e restra»Ter with the campus* 
registrar requesting that dsctosure not be made witfxxit he-her wncten per- 
m«ss«n, the foHoi^-BiQ items are conadered pubhc irrformstMjn and may be m- 
dxJed n appropnata University-Campus Orectones and puMcatois, It these 
dBta^nfo^m8tlon are incAiJed in a campus drectory. they may be dsdosed by 
any staff member fi response to nqurws concemng iickidud students 
whether the mqury is m person, in wncng, or over the telephone 

[7] Locel address and phw mxnber 

[81 Home address [permanent] 
mestncted Oata-kiformstxm 

Al dsea-informatjon about an iniividual student m the Urwersitv reccrds. rxit 



keted as pubic, are consKler«d restricted and may not be released based or^ 
on tfie following conditions: 

A, Disclosure to the mttvtdual stijdent. 

|1] A student shall have access to the d9ta^nlo^mabon about himsetf- 
frersert which are part ot the Univers;ty records covered by this pol«y except 
when Boxss is a clear conflict of the privacy nghts of other indivtduals. The 
foUowrig represent the exceptions 

a) The dataHnformaoon wUch were part of the Untversity records pnor to 
N ovem ber 19, 1974. and wfuch were coflected and mencameO as confidential 
infonneaon wfl not be drsdosed to the student Such data-in formaoai wili be 
identified and dufy marked by the administrative units holdng the records 

b] Actnisaon Letters □( Recommendabon — letters of recommendation for 
admission shal be held m confidence when they are requested by the student 
affected and wfien both the student and the wnter acknowledge their confiden- 
tial nature Such letters will become part ot the University recoote Thev wil 
not be revealed to the student without the wntten permission ot the wnter. 
Such letters wiD only be used mtemaSy to the Unn^rsity r\ accordance with the 
prowsonsof lie ot this pokey. 

c) Placement Letters of Recommendation — letters of recommendation tor 
[wiposes of seekng placement shall be held m confidence when they are re- 
quested by the student affected and when both the student and vmter 
acknowledge their confideitial nature Such letters wiH become part of the 
University's placement records. They will not be revealed to tne student 
wnhout the wntten permission of the wnter [unless the Recwnmendabon 
Form ri question contains a student nght to "review and inspect" Statement) 

d] Parents hnanaei bcatements, sumTiitledlo support aio requests on tne 
condition that tfiey woukJ not be made available to the student for review 
1 without vmtten permission from tfie parent] 

T5TA student shsB have the opportitfirty to request tfie deletion or modifica- 
Don ot any such rnaccurate. misleading, or otherwise inappropriate date- 
rformation contained withm the University records 

B Osctosure to other students. 

[ 1 1 No student shaD have access to the data-ffi formation m the records of 
another student unless the stuent involved has given wntten euthonzstion tor 
the release of the nformation requested When a Sbjdent is also an empoyee 
of the Ufwersity Ns-her access to data-information in another student's 
record wiD be governed by fvs or her official capacity as an employee of the 
University. 

(21 To assise confidenoalilv. instructors shoukJ utize Social Security 
nurnbers or aome suitable numerical system wfien posong test or exanvnabon 
grades, or on term papers when thev are to be picked up oy students n faculty 

C Disciosii^ to faculty, admmstretion. and staff. 

[1 ] Faculty, administrsDon. end staff of the Unrvef^ity shall fiave access to 
the datannfonnation about a student wtvch g deemed necessary by the 
regstrar tor the perlormance ot their academic or edmirastrBtive dunes. 



on^ w 

E. E 



[1 ] The daca-informaoon about a student shall be released to the parents 

J WTth wntten penmsson of the student »ivohfed. 

:. Dsdosure to spouses. 

[1 ] The data-ntormation on a Student shal not be given to a spouse wnhout 
the written permissiDn of the student mvotved 

F. OsctosLTe to persons and eQHiaes external to the University. 

[1) No non-pubic dscaHnformation about any oxiividual student shall be 
released without the wntten pennssion ot the student to any indvidua). agen- 
cy, or orgaiizatcin, tnless requu^ by e»sorg federal or state laws, i.e.. 
Edix^tion Amerriments Act of 1 974 — 

Q. Dsdosu^ tor legitimate education interests. 

( 1 ] The poicy s not mended to Btrtigs Che freedom of «Mry for legianaie 
education interests. 

[3] Data-mformaoon from Unwersrty records aixxjt students wil be releas- 
ed CO the researcher only it tfie anonyntty if tfie mdvidual student is protected 
and upon appropriate admnstrative approval. 

131 Unless the researcher satisfies tfie appropriate Umversitv adnnnstracor 



I be furnished to non-Umversity organizs- 



that the student wrl not tie rierviewed or ns-ner ndencity disclosed ri the 
coiB-Be of tfie research proiect, wntten approval of the atuoent is a condition 
precedent to inspectwn of the student's records 

(4] Requests from Unnfersity-effikated organizations for scholastic mtorma- 
tion about students wfl be fionored only when accompaned by a wntten re- 
quest from ttie campus Dean of Students or Dean of Student Affairs 

H. Disclosure by siApoena. 

1 1 ] When dsckjsure ot any data-information from tf*e Unwersity records 
about a student are demanded by ludaal subpoena, the staff member receivng 
such a subpoena shall immedately notify. »i wncng, the Urwersity Counsel erd 
the student nvolved 

III Stabsbcal Summary intormaoon 

A Stocisbcel summary data-n formation which are not name-*nked may bey 
released to any person or agency in response to any inqury judged reasonable 
by the University administrators respons4)le for controSng and maintanng the 
data. 

IV tklailng Usts 
A. Student maiing tets shall n 

tons 

9 Student meiing lists may be furnished to campus organuations with the 
wntten approval of tfie Oeen of Students or Student AffaM^ on chat canvus 

C Student maring lists may be furnished to acadenuc and administrative 
departments as deemed necessary by the Office ot tfie Regatrar 
PROCEDURES: 

I FKiblc Data-Information 

The procedures for releasing the public areaHntormetion are spelled out 
wrChm the policy Statement (see 1 . A. B. CJ 

II Resmcied Oate-lnformation 

A. Disctosure to the mdwckjal student 

(1 1 A student may initiate access to the Universe records concemng 
himself -herself by 

a) D«'ectfy contacang the given office wtiere the records exist, or 

b] Contactjng the Office ot the Regstrar wtuch wil assist the student m iden- 
OfvinQ tfie locations where records may be kept on him-her 

(S] When the student appears at a given office and requests access to the 
Ureversity records about hjmseif-hersdt 

a) Tfie student must orovide proper identificaDon verifying that tie-she s the 
person whose record is Ijemg accessed 

b) The designated staff person [s] sfiould review the contents of tfie record 
with the student It tfis can not be done mmeilatefy. an appointment should be 
estabisheo tor as soon as possible. 

cJTfiescudentsfiouU be free to make notes concerning the contents, but no 
copies of the matenal should be provided (Exceptxm ot chs would be uioffioal 
copies OT the student s academu: record|. Also, no material shoud be removed 
from Che record et the C»ne. Material nwy be removed only Amg tt)B heanng 



[3] When a studenc has chalenged certan data-»iformation and has re- 
quested deletion or modificaDon of Che record. 

a] The desgnaiion staff person (si reviewfig tfie record with tfie student 
may agree to delete selected data-informaDon and do so n-nmeAately 

bl If Che designated staff person does not conar with the student's request 
to delete or- mocJfy Che Oata-information. en aOm«stratA'e tieanng m^ be re- 
quested by the student. 

c] A heanng. conducted by the re^strar shall be schediied. The heanng 
sfial provide tor a wncten or oral argi^nent from che stiident n support of hs- 
her request tor deleuon or modrfcation it shall also provide for mout from che 
des^nated staff person r stfiporc ot his or tier oppositxin to the deletcn or 
modrficanon ot tfie record 

d} The regstrar shall prtjvide the student, m wnt»ig. hs-her deOBOn 
concemng che request for deletion or modhcatxm inckxing raoonaie for said 
'2cson. 

Student records are kept m che department, school, and the Office of tfie 



SUBOG plans events 
for fall semester 

The following events are planned for the hall by 
the Student Union Board of Governors: 
September 20 and 21 

Popular Film Festival 
October 7 and 8 

Jayne Lybrand 

Lecture, demonstration, 

and workshop on 

communication skills 
October 18 and 19 

Camp Film Festival 
November 22 and 23 

Foreign Film Festival 
December 6 

Tommy Dorsey Orchestra 

"Big Band Dance" 

Grand Wayne Center 

8 p.m, - midnight 
December 13 and 14 

Walt Disney Film Festival 



CAN WE 
TALK? 

If you have any experience working on a 
college or high school newspaper staff, the 
editors of The Communicator want to talk 
to you! 

We are looking for writers and 
photographers to complete our 1985-86 
staff. Come to Walb Union room 215 TO- 
DAY to find out about being a member of 
our award-winning team. 



AUGUST 19. 1985 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK - PAGE 13 



1985 Football Schedules 



1985 PURDUE FOOTBALL 

Sept. 7 at Pittsburgh 

Sept. 14 Open 

Sept. 21 BALL STATE 

(Parents' Day) 
Sept. 28 NOTRE DAME 
Oct. 5 at Minnesota 
Oct. 12 ILLINOIS 
Oct. 19 at Ohio State 
Oct. 26 MICHIGAN STATE 

(Homecoming) 
Nov. 2 NORTHWESTERN 

(Dad's Day) 
Nov. 9 at Michigan 
Nov. 16 IOWA (P-Awards) 
Nov. 23 at Indiana 



1985 INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
FOOTBALL 

Sept. 14 LOUISVILLE 

(Varsity Club Day) 
Sept. 21 NAVY 
Sept. 28 at Missouri 
Oct. 5 NORTHWESTERN 

(Pork Day) 
Oct. 12 at Ohio State 
Oct. 19 MINNESOTA 

(Homecoming) 
Oct. 26 at Michigan 
Nov. 2 at Wisconsin 
Nov. 9 MICHIGAN STATE 

(Parents' Day) 
Nov. 16 at Illinois 
Nov. 23 Purdue ("I" Day) 



CONCERNS? 
PERSONAL PROBLEMS? 

Free personal counseling 
is provided for IPFW 
students at the Counsel- 
ing, Testing and Place- 
ment Office, Walb 
Union 113. 
Please call 482-5646 
for an appointment 





•Novelties 

•NBA 

•NFL 

•Major League Baseball 



10% OFF 

W/ STUDENT I.D. 



COMPLETE LINE OF 
SPORTING GOODS 
AVAILABLE 




CLINTON CORNERS CENTER 
Ph. 48*-1117 



Store Hours: 

10^ Mon.-Thurs. 

10-8 Friday 

10-5 Saturday 



Purdue Season Tickets Available 

Purdue University, &lt;West Lafayette, is allowing IPFW 
full-time Purdue students to purchase 1985 season 
tickets to Purdue football games. 

Tickets must be ordered by Friday, September 6, 
1985. The cost for season tickets is *24.00 payable by 
check or money order at the time of ordering. 

If you are interested in obtaining season passes, 
please contact Mary Ladig, Student Services Office, 
Walb Memorial Union, room 118 by the above 
deadline. 



Join The Stampede 


To IPFW 




^ 


Athletics Coming This Fall 


y ( ^ 


1 




IPFW MASTODONS 




i 


- NCAA Division D 

1985 WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 


Athletics 




r 


1985 WOMEN'S TENNIS | 


SepL 11 


BUTLER UNIVERSITY 


7:00 p.m. 


Sept 7 


at Valparaiso University 


9:30 a.m. 


SepL 13-14 


IPFW INVITATIONAL 


3:00 p.m. 


Sept 10 


at Saint Francis 


1:00 p.m. 


Sept. 18 


SAINT FRANCIS 




■ Sept 15 


at Saint Joseph College 


1:00 p.m. 




COLLEGE 


7:00 p.m. 


Sept 21 


at Indiana Central 




Sept 20-21 


at Grand Valley State 


6:00 p.m. 




University 


10:00 am. 


SepL 25 


at IIIPIII 


7.00 p.m. 






Sept- 27-28 at Northern Kentucky 
Oct 3 LEWIS UNIVERSITY 
Oct 5 at MountSaint Joseph 


4:00 p.m. 
7:00 p.m. 
2:00 p.m. 


Sept 26 
Sept 28 


at Huntington 
GOSHEN COLLEGE 
at Anderson College 


Jim p.m. 
3:30 p.m. 
11:00 am, 


Oct 9 


at Saint Joseph College 


7:00 p.m. ' 




COLLEGE 




Oct 11-12 


at Wright State 


3:00 p.m. 


Oct 3 


VALPARAISO 




Oct 15 


at Indiana Central 


7:00 p.m. 




UNIVERSITY 


3:00 p.m. 


Oct 23 


WRIGHT STATE 




Oct 6 


at Indiana Central 






UNIVERSITY 


7.00 p.m. 




University 


11:00 a.m. 


Oct 25 


at Lewis University 


7:00 p.m. 


Oct 11-12 


at Saint Joseph College 




Oct 30 


SAINT JOSEPH COLLEGE7:00 p.m. 




(GLVC) 


11:00 a.m. 


Nov. 2 














University 


10:00 a.m. 




1985 GOLF 




Nov. 8-9 


IPFW CLASSIC 


6:00 p.m. 


Sept 9 


at Indiana Central 




Nov. 15-16 


GLVC (Ashland! 




Sept 19 
Sept 23 


Univenity 

IPFW INVITATIONAL 

at Ball State 






1985 SOCCER 




Sept 28 


(IN Collegiate Tourney) 
at Tri-State 




Sept 7-« 


at Wright State 


1:00 p.m. 


Oct 7 


at Bellarmine (GLVC) 




Sept 14 


at Indiana Central 


1:00 p.m. 








Sept 18 


at Valparaiso Universi^ 


4:00 p.m. 


1&lt; 85 CROSS COUNTRY | 


Sept 21 


UNIVERSITY OF 




Aug. 31 


at Valparaiso University 






SOUTHERN INDIANA 


1:00 p.m. 


Sept 7 


IPFW HOKUM-KAREM 






(Alumni vs. Alumni) 


10:00 a.m. 


Sept 14 


at Grace 




Sept 24 


at Saint Joseph 


4:00 p.m. 


Sept 21 


at Taylor 




Sept 28 


at Oakland University 


2:00 p.m. 


Sept 27 


at Manchester 




Sept 30 


TRl-STATE 




Oct 5 


at Tri-State 




Oct 3 




3:15 p.m. 


Oct 18 


at Bloomington (nCCC) 




Oct 5 


at Bellamiine 


2:00 p.m. 


Oct 26 


at Lewis (CLVQ 




Oct 8 


at Grace 


4:00 p.m. 




* 




Oct 1&amp; 
Oct 19 
Oct 22 
Oct 26 


MIAMI OF OHIO 3:30 p.m. 
LEWIS UNIVERSITY 1:00 p.m. 
EASTERN MICHIGAN 3:30 p.m. 
GRAND RAPIDS BAPTIST 1:00 p.m. 


FALL 1985 MEN'S TENNIS 

Sept 3 at MARION 3:00 p.m. 
Sept 9 at Anderson 3;00 p.m. 


Oct 31 


GLVC at Kentucky 




Sept 13 


ST. FRANCIS 


1:00 p.m. 








Sept 14 


at St Francis 


10:00 a-m. 




Finals 




Sept 24 


at Tri-State 


4:00 p.m. 



PAGE 14 — THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK — AUGUST 19, 1985 

IPFW Athletic Program 



Catch the Mastodon Fever! 



The Multipurpose Building is equipped with five 
racquetball-handball courts, three full-sized basketball 
courts and an indoor jogging track. The seating around the 
main basketball court accommodates 3,200 spectators. 

There are also facilities for indoor tennis, volleytiall, 
gymnastics, wrestling, weigh tlif ting, condiboning. and 
dancing Offices for the athletic department are on the upper 
level, two classrooms and a lecture hall are on the main floor, 
and locker rooms are on the lower level of the building. 

Your activity fee entitles you to use the facility during 
regular operating hours, as well as for intramurals. 

Use of the facility is subject to the following fees : 

A. Athletic Center Semester-Session User Fee Schedule 

1. AU students with I.D. cards are admitted free to the 
Multipurpose Building for use of the facilities during the 
academic semesters. Summer session fees, $10. 

2. Faculty and staff: academic semester, $15; summer 
session, $10. 

3. Spouse of faculty or staff: academic semester, $15; 
summer session, $10. 

4. '^ length dressing locker and lock: Academic semester, 
$6; summer session, $6. 

5. Towel service: academic semester, $6; summer session, 
$6. 

6. Family pass for student: academic semester, $24; 
summer session, $20. 

7. Family pass for faculty and staff: academic semester, 
$30; summer session, $20. 

B. Faculty and Staff - Annual Fee Schedule 

1. Single: $35. 

2. Single, including locker and towel service: $55. 

3. Family: $70. 

4. Family, including locker and towel service: $110. 

C. Studentg - Annual Fee Schedule 

1. Students' family: $60. 

2. Students' family (including locker and towel service): 

$100. 

D. Athletic Center Daily User Fee Schedule 

1 . Daily fee for use of general recreation area for those who 
have not paid the semester or session fee: faculty and staff; 
spouse of faculty, staff or student or guest of a fee payer: $2 
per use. 

2. Daily fee for use of general recreation area for depen- 
dents of faculty, staff or student - hours will be designated: $1 
per use. 



3. Hourly fee per handball court in addition to daily or 
semester fee: $3 hourly. 

4. Daily locker and lock fee : 50 cents per day. 

5. Daily towel service: 50 cents per day. 

6. Locker opening: 25 cents. 

7. Lock key replacement: $1. 

8. Lock replacement: cost of lock. 

9. Towel replacement: cost of towel. 

10. Equipment damaged, not returned, or lost: cost of 
equipment replacement. 

INTERCOLLEGIATE PROGRAMS 

The purposes of the intercollegiate athletics programs at 
IPFW are to (a) provide opportunities for healthful physical 
exercise and recreation, (b) develop athletic skills through 
practice and coaching, (c) build school spirit and identity, 
and (d) enrich the collegiate experience for participants and 
spectators. To be eligible to participate in intercoU^iate 
athletic programs you are required to take a minimum of 12 
credits, and must be making satisfactory progress toward a 
degree. IPFW intercollegiate sports are baseball, women's 



and men's basketball, coed cross country, coed golf, soccer, 
women's and men's volleyball, and women's and men's 
tennis. 

RECREATION PROGRAMS 

Th IPFW recreation program is open to students, faculty, 
and staff of IPFW. The "Intramural Sports Handbook" 
contains eligibihty information and is available in the 
athletics office. You may participate in tennis, flag football, 
racquetball, billiards, volleyball, basketball, table tennis, 
running and softball. 

Sign-up dates will be announced in The Communicator and 
posted on the recreation bulletin board in the lobby of the 
Multipurpose Building. Any individual or group can form a 
team for any of the team activities. Please submit your 
ideas, requests, or suggestions for team or individual sports 
and physical fitness activities. 

Equipment is available for individual or group use on 
campus. Bring an I.D. tocheckoutequipment for volleyball, 
basketball, football, softball, and other activities. 

Another popular facihty on campus is the parcourse. a 
walking, jogging, exercise course located east of the 
Multipurpose Building. 



Alumni organizations offer 
active memberships 



NO MORE PENCILS, NO MORE BOOKS, 
NO MORE TEACHERS' DIRTY LOOKS. 

It is a nightmare, this childhood dream of an endless 
summer vacation. And the more schooling we get, the more 
we are likely to recognize education's impor- 
tance to our economic, social, and psychological well-being. 

IPFW's alumni organizations are the formal means by 
which the holders of nearly 18,000 degrees conferred at 
IPFW translate this recognition into action. Through the 
alumni office, graduates sponsor career nights for alumni- 
to-be, athletic and scholarship programs. Red and Gold 
Carpet Days for prospective students and their families, the 
Graduating Class Council, and many other activities which 
bring enjoyment and recognize graduates' debt to higher 



education. IPFW alumni often send their children and neigh- 
bors — and sometimes their parents — to IPFW, and an 
unusually high number of IPFW alumni themselves return 
for additional credit or noncredit study; more pencils, more 
books... 

Earning your degree at IPFW brings automaUc mem- 
bership in the IPFW alumni organization and in either the 
Indiana University Alumni Association or the Purdue 
Alumni Association. The staff of the IPFW alumni office 
(Kettler 112, phone 482-5343) hope you will be an active 
member, a contributor to the academic and co-curricular 
life of the campus at which you completed the foundation for 
your personal success. 



Counseling, testing 

and placement services 

available 

Counseling, testing and placement services [»'ovide 
counseling, career assessment, testing, part-time and fidl- 
time job placement, and career education. These services 
are available to all students, prospective students, alumni, 
faculty and staff. We are located in Walb Memorial Union 
113. 

CouDseling. Professional counselors can assist you with 
crisis situations, anxiety issues, career decision-making, 
interpersonal relationship problems, or any other issues 
that may be stressful or challenging. When appropriate, 
referrals are made to other campus services or to com- 
munity agencies. Call 482-5656. 

Testing. Career-assessment groups meet regularly to 
administer and interpret career interest inventories 
designed to assist you with your career and educational 
development. Also, we can provide information on all 
national testing programs, such as SAT, CLEP, and GMAT, 
and institutional testing programs, such as the IPFW 
English and math placement tests. Call 482-5656. 

Placement. The placement office provides services to 
IPFW students as well as to all In^ana University and 
Purdue University alumni, regardless of the campus they 
attended. These services include free registration with the 
placement office, help in writing resumes, information 
about the job outlo&lt;rit, salary information, career coun- 
seling, and career and interest testing at a modest fee. In 
addition, the career library contains numerous books and 
occupation briefs describing hundreds of occupations as 
well as an extensive employer literature file. 

R^istration with the placement office provides the op- 
portunity to interview with over 150 companies and public 
agencies that recruit on campus and to receive a bi-wedtly 
summary of available jobs. Call 482-5646. 

The counselors are trained to meet the particular needs of 
undecided and pre-business students attending Indiana- 
Purdue. So if you are still uncertain about your major or 
have questions regarding the university, the student 
academic counsding staff can help. 




JOB LOCATION SERVICE 



SECRETARY. 8:30-12:30, M-F; job will last til Jan. 1. Typing (50 
WPM), CRT, calculator, basic math, and phone skills needed. $4.90/hr. 
Job Number: 7-5-0-4 

BOOKKEEPER/SECRETARY. 3 mornings/week, 5 days/week. Ac- 
counting student preferred, but not required. $4,25/hr. Job Number: 
8-1-0-2 

RETAIL SALES. 10-20 brs./wk. For men's attire store, selling conser- 
vative, traditional clothing. $3.50-$4.00/hr. Job Number: 7-5-R-7 
COMPUTER ANALYST. 20 hrs./wk. Need some computer ex- 
perience. $5.00/hr. Job Number: 7-5-1/T-2 

DRAFTSPERSONS &amp; DESIGN ENGINEERS. Looking for ME or 
MET students. $5.00/hr, + Job Number: 8-1-I/T-2 
FURNITURE DELIVERY PERSON. 15 hrs./wk. Should be able to lift 
to 50 lbs. $3.75/hr. Job Number: 8-1-G-2 

GRADUATE PLACEMENT 
SALESPERSON. A.A.S. or B.S. in interior design. Position is in 
drapery department. 7% commission on draw basis. 
MARKETING MANAGER. B.S. in marketing or 2-3 years experience 
in service advertising or marketing. 

MECHANICAL DESIGN ENGINEERS &amp; MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERS. Degree in mechanical engineering or mechanical 
engineering technology. Must have good drafting knowledge. 
COMPUTER OPERATOR. Will run IBM 4300 DOXA/SE system. 
Prefer experience. 

INSPECTOR. A.A.S. in electrical engineering technology. Salary: 
$1,450 per month. 

IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN ANY OF THE ABOVE POSI- 
TIONS, PLEASE CHECK THE JOB BOOKS IN THE OFFICE OF 
COUNSELING, TESTING, AND PLACEiVIENT, WALB 113. 



AUGUST 19. 1985 - THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK - PAGE 15 



U.S. Department of Transportation 



Gouicii 



Famous last words from friends 

TO FRIENDS. I'm perfectly fine. I can 
drive with my eyes closed. There's nothing 
wrong with me. Are you joking— I feel 
great. What am I— a wimp? I'm in great 
shape to drive. You're not serious are you? 
What's a couple of beers? Nobody drives 
my car but me. I've never felt better. I can 
drink with the best of them. But I only had 
a few. So I had a couple. I can drive rings 
around anybody I can drive my own car, 
thank you. I'm not drunk. I drive better 
hen I'm like this. Who says I can't drink 
'Irive? I can hold my booze. I know 
'm doing. I always drive like this, 
wit' ^ i'^'-ustme. What'safew 
^hing to me. I'm 
'^th my eyes 
ith me. 
drink 




DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIP 



PAGE Ifr-THE STUDENTS' HANDBOOK— AUGUST 19. 1985 



1^1- '"■A 




