THE 



Communicator 



Indiana University -Purdue University Fort Wayne 



OFFICE LINE: 481-6584 



ADVERTISING: 481-6583 



m^— 



MM 



IPFW scientist 
discusses genetic 
engineering 
of food plants 




By Gloria de Faria 
Chief Reporter 



duce high ci 
ly food Same uf Ihc p'lants 
ihut luvc been genetically 
engineered include com, 
soybean; and broccoli. 



"The n 



n this 



ilogy are Ihc 



George S. Mourad. associ- 
ate professor of biology a! 
IPFW, Tor Ihc "Lunch wilh 
an IPFW Scicnlisl." The 

Engineering of Food 
Plants: Is ii good or arc we 
creating a monster?" cov- 
eted basic procedures and 
precautions to be fol- 
lowed, as well as advan- 
tages and disadvantages of 
such procedures. 

During ihc event, 
Mourad anil P.imijii Junk, 
a graduate student in 
Mourad '■ lab, showed ihe 
participants' ihc dilTcrcnl 
sites of DNA samples and 
haw ihey migrate through 
an ultraviolet Iranslumina 
lor. "The DNA is 
placed in a gel box con- 
taining differcnl sized 
holes The boi is then 
altacbcd lo a power sup- 
ply, allowing Ihc DNA 10 
tiasei through ii and sepa- 
rate by size. The DNA is 
mixed tvilh a tracking dye 
lhal effloresces when 
ultraviolet light is used and 
that's ihc only way Ihe 
DNA can be seen with the 
naked eye." Junk said 

The audience parlici- 
pjinin included asking, as 
well as answering ques- 
tions. According to 



able 10 the consumer and 
ihc detection of possible 
side effects on humans and 
olhcr living organisms, It 
is important that it docs 
not change the balance in 
Ihc ecological system of 
tiihci organisms. Last, but 
not leas I. the proper label- 
ing of these products so 
ihai ihc consumers know 
that Ihc product is geneti- 
cally minified." Mourad 

Concerning the cre- 

monslet," Mourad 



cni'iiiiiTou: h.i-. ik bene 
fits and downfalls, but 
Mouud believes that the 
benefits are far greater 
than ihc downfalls. 

According to Dedcc 
Ludwig. floor manager at 
Science Central, "This is 
an important event 

because it shows the chil- 
dren the human side of sei- 



with it. Then 

that they can 
they decide lo ; 






IPFW hosts MLK celebration 



By Gloria de Faria 
Chief Reporter 

In honor of civil rights activist Moulin Luther 
King Jr.. IPFW Multicultural Services, in conjunction 
with organizations such as the Fort Wayne Urban 
League and Campus Ministry, hosted the JJJth Annual 
Martin Luther King It Cclchtation/Commcmoration 
on Jan. 1 3. "It is quile possibly one of the most impor- 
tant things that we do every year. The ideals of Dr. 
King are the mosi important thing Tot everyone to 
realize and the more that we can do to get those ideals 
actoss, the belter." said Lam Life, than and Millie 
diteetor of IPFW's department of theatie. 

According to Christine A. Patterson, diteetor of 
Multicultural Services, ihc event gives people the 
opportunity to reflect back on King's dteam. lo see 
how far they have come and also to look at how far 



still hi 

"The dteam has n&lt; 






llizcd This 



way to look at whal else we con do Tonight's: program 
represents Dr. King's 'beloved community.' What he 
really wanted lo see was people interacting logcthet 
He wanted mote than us jus! being able lo sil in the 
classroom neit to someone white, he wanted us to 
embrace each other and be able to love each other," 
Paiterson said. 

Angelo Vincent Fleming, president of the Fort 
Wayne Urban League, believes that the program is 
fundamental in keeping alive the spin! of what King 
and others did for an era "It helps people to know how 
important the role of Km;' was fi&gt;r ihc American soci- 
ety and helps us improve what we are today. It allows 
us lo remember what happened in history, so that we 
can celebrate those days and continue to strive for- 
ward in this area, especially in civil rights." Fleming 

The hour-long event was based on the national 
celebration of King's birthday on Jan 15. It started at 
7 p.m. at Williams Theatre when Life welcomed the 
audience, followed by an invocation led by Reverend 
Ben Gates, pastor at IPFW Campus Ministry 



Patterson and Hector Gaicia, associate prole-suit 
emeritus of the dcpartmeni of visual aits, noted the 
achievements of Ihc winner of Ihe MLK award. 
Bishop Jesse While, a pastot of the True Lose 
Missionary Baptist Chuich 

Reverend Mclvin While. While's (On, accepted 
the Martin Luihet King Award for "eiempllfyins the 
ideals of Martin Luthct King Jr " lor his father Who 

Condra Ridley, a Fort Wayne communis mem 
ber Tram the SheekriSlylc Dance Academy. Etc- 
spread messages of peace and unity ihiough poeli) 
readings 

Live performances by Bridget Bannec, a juniot 
theatre major, and Curtis Cnslet, an IPFW graduate, 
accompanied by Rebecca Thompson, were also part of 
the program, as were perfotmanccs by the 
SriL-ckriSljIe Dance Academy, lite The celebration 

ended with a bcncdic i led b&gt; Reverend Greg Guise, 

pastor of Unity Christ Church. 



Walb computer lab may extend operation hours 



Since last Oclober the Indiana- 
Purdue Student Government Association 
has been speaking with members of ITS 
and Walt Branson, vice chancellor of 
Financial Affairs lo change Ihe operation 
hours of the computer lab in Walb Union. 
The proposed hours are to have the lab 
open until 2 a.m. It is uncertain when the 
changes will take place. 

"The student government icptcsenia- 
live said that many students wail in line at 
the 24-hour lab in the library. We felt that 
emended hours would be helpful." said 
Mary Schooler, manager of user support. 

"I think Ihe hours would be good dur- 
ing finals week," said Dorecn Owusu- 
Akyaw, a student consultant in the Walb 



lab. 



"Right m 
s. I'd 






know about 2 
type or incentive. Usually 
two or Ihicc people worki 
closes. During Finals week men 
ten people working until clos 
said Ryan Galbraiih, a student 
in the Walb lab- 
Gal bra ith said that both 
ITS would eventually like id I 
open 24 hours, howoer thai is r 



re asking employ 
able to work Ihosi 
idnighl but I don' 




Photo by Doddy Jong, Salt Pholographor 

vi) Bhuiya, student consultant in ihe Walb computer lab takes a break irom assisting leliow stu- 



"The n 



mild be si 



rtolhi 



open 



il 2 a.m. then Walb has to open as well 
" said Owusu-Akyaw'. 
lie people lo Ihe Union," said Galbraiih. 
because it is so far away from their class- 
comrol because there aren't as many tooms in it 



tutd bring 
"Many people don'i want to come ft 
es. This building is (he 
as the olhct buildings." 

Many people .■■rnc io the W.ilb computer lab because it has high-level pro- 
grams, according lo Galbraiih These are the best computers on campus besides the 



individual leaching stain ins. he added W.ilh .it-... na&gt; appro innately 50 ct 

some of which have cameras. Il is also ihe only lab on campus lo offer Macintosh 

support. 

Schocletsaid that it is difficult 10 see whether anyone will use the lab during 
those hours. The hours will be a pilot try and if no one uses the lab ihen the citcnd- 
ed time will be discontinued. 

The current Walb lab hours arc front Ham to 1 1 p m Mod. through Fn and 
noon to 10 p.m. on Sunday 



Bulletin boards bring campus information to students 




New Web Bulletin Boards at: 

http://bboards.ipfw.edu 

NOW Available to ALL oil -campus users 

— faculty/sulT and students while 011-campus 

All Ihe same topic areas as Ihc OLD B Boards 
with 3 new boards especially for students 

When you seir-regisler, you can sign-up for e-mail 
notices of postings from all boards 



By Mishanna Wood 
News Editor- 
On Dec. 15. web-based bul- 
letin boards 
( ht lp lib board s.ipfw.ed ul became 
available 10 IPFW students 
Faculty and staff have had bulletin 
boards for five years. According lo 
Robert Koslrubanic. director of 
Information Technology Services 
UTS), Frank Borelli, vice chancel- 
lor of Student Affairs, has been an 
advocate of the boards for the past 
year After Ihe decisions were 
made and an architect was hited. it 
only look two weeks to get the 
system up and running, according 
10 Mary Schoeler, manager of user 
support. 

"This is a temporary w r ay to 
c the bulletin boards. It uses 



ed, it will remain on the site for same ones used io log on to cam- 
only SOdays .However. Ihe author pus computers ur holmes email 
of the message can delete it, as accounts, 
well. The bulletin boards are not 
Some of Ihe information ihat connected to those systems; there- 
can be found on the webpagc Tore, it is necessary to fill out this 
includes campus activities, stu- information. In other words. 11 
dent activities, job postings and won't know who you are without 
following '■ 



1 think this 



very 



11, .(11 






:e fea- 



and edit its contents After you 
have made corrections, you can 
click validate and your message 
will be posted. Express submis- 
sion skips the option to edit and 
immediately posts Ihe message It 
is also possible to attach files, pic- 
lures and web links to ihe posting. 
Lori Beth Roysi ' 



GroupWise. the sa 



Schoeler 
The 



I has t 



sections: campus wide postings, 
faculty and staff postings and stu- 
dent postings. The webpagc is 
only accessible on campus 
Schoeler and Koslrubanic said 
there was concern lhal outsiders 
1 messages. In 



Sludenl Government- 
mandatory to rea 
information listed in th 
different sectors of th 

for students 10 post 
message on Ihc websin 
they should first go t 
the site. Click 
Student Acini ties an 
select post. Then c 



I think this __ 
verv informative. I 
like that students 
can read the pro- 
fessors' informa- 
tion and profes- 
sors can read the 
students' 
information." 



IPSGA presidt 



you have selected 



Student Life 1 



:mbci of the 



the registration page, type i. 



button. On service. 



thi 



like it 10 appear on the pt 
your email address and ; 
word. The password and th 






After you have registered, 
you have the ability to post mes- 

Student Bulletin Boards and 
choose post. Then you will enter a 
and a ' 



ihnology board, w 
1 1 tiring the postings for inap- 
propriate activity, according in 
Schoeler and Koslrubanic 

This i« a way for students lo 
have general dialogue. I will keep 
an eye out for improper language 

good change for sludenl organiza- 
tions." said Royse "J hope ihat 
students take a look at h." 

Schoeler said that the most 
popular aspect of Ihe bulletin 
board for faculty and staff was the 
for sale section. She said thai the 



isage is pos'- 



c and password are not the message in the large bov For a 



"In the near fuluic, as we 
make upgrades and improve- 
ments, we hope to gel this accessi- 
ble off-campus wilh security We 
are investigating." said 
Koslrubanic 




Opinions 



Community responds in letters to MLK Day. 
Page 2. 



Features 



Getting involved at IPFW, Page 4. 



Sports 



Volleydons succeed. Page 6. 



Opinions 




Rights, responsibilities and asking 
the right questions 



"People must ask questions and not just accept every- 
thing." -the words of 

Burmese leader Aung San Suu Kyi from Voice of Hope: 
Conversations with Alan 
Clements (p. 63). 1997 

Tl is so often discouraging to pick up and read a newspa- 
per, or to sit through an entire broadcast of world news. People 
are murdered, religious riots are started, natural disasters tear 
apart the lives of thousands of people in various locations 
around the planet. What's the use in trying to keep up? 

Our media-drenched culture has become both dependent 
upon and lackadaisical tow-aids the availability of news in our 
lives On Ihc one hand we arc sickened by the innumerable dol- 
lar-driven forces which vie for our attention, while on Ihc other 
we demand accurate and complete coverage 

of news stories we deem important. It is pop- : " • 

ulnr to say. "I don't watch much television," • 

iw many of us proclaim, "I barely 



the internet? ' Media fashions, like 
clothes and hair styles, are subject to the ebb- 
nnd-flow influences of both producerlsr and 
audienccls). 

In America very few of us have an 
excuse for nol being current on what's hap- ; 
penmg in the world Access to and under- ■ 
standing of news (and othcrl media arc die- ; 

tatcd by various political and societal con- ; 

strucls. Vet, free media -nil exist in public 

libraries for those who live close enough to such facilities. 

These and cider jrjrunieiiiH about the stale of our minds- 
bolh individually and as a nation — arc both plausible and ca; 
ipportcd. They 



pus or fail Ihc eum; they can still graduate thanks (o built-in 
loopholes which render the tests all hut infertile. 

The popular press gave rale, "brave" reviews of President 
Clinton's ellon.', to nuke nice »ilh China, but how many jour- 
nalists recounted the reasons why our relations grew cold in the 
first place'' The ruling bodies of communist China have a long 
and detailed history of deception, mass murder and extreme 
human nghls violations Remember Tianncnmen Square' 1 That 
was nol an isolated occurrence, anyone who has read The 
Autobiography of the Dalai lama can explain to you why we 
should rc-think our strategics. 

Now before any grumbling can come to fruition, let me 
address the obvious objection I am not arguing against confer- 
ences, peace talks, collaboration or other type* of communica- 
tion with China or any country 1 am simply saying thai before 
wcw-holchcjjtedh i-ndi&gt;! -.e am movement (i.e 

■■•»■■■• : the hashing ol people »lw oppose trade with 

• China!, we -liquid check .mr elves andeontcx- 
t prior events that relate 



a Ihc i 



Staff 
Editorial 



News media and ill producer! ITe DOI the 

law; they arc nol the protectorate; they arc not 

our parents, conseiences or even our friends. 

They are informants and watchdogs who oughi 

I to be treated with Ihc same measure of skcpli- 

• cismu'calTotdiitherii'uiivel Rights, rcsponsi- 

j bililics, restrictions and revelation all come 

,.. ; into pl.iv in ihc di-cowon uT media Its roles in 

society and the dishur»cincni of Information 
(however abundant andoi superlluous). cm and should include 
that of Ihc critic. 

Mote importantly, however, is the other dimension of 
crshadowed. however, by the Tact that media How that of the receiver; who can act as both conduit 
and catalyst between and lm mc.lin production and Ihc mean- 
ings assigned with such Without information, we cannot ana- 
lyze or cntiquc in order to create meaning: without careful 
scrutiny media loses its intellectual potency. 

the relationship between sendei and audience, in terms of 
mediated communications, is interdependent and, hopefully, 
ooncor static An ide.il 'Situation miulil be one sort nf like Ihc game 
:ly good show, "Jeopardy 1 '' in which answer', information arc provided 
in, and think through their possible intentions, effects by one souicc, but it is up to the participants to ask the right 
nccs. How many people are aware that ISTEP exams are questions, 
an Indiana high school student's life? Of that number, 
any more make it to the end of the news article to read Heidi Saliba 
the end, it rarely makes a difference whether students Managing Editor 



those of 

malum jnd lechnnliigj. hardly think twice about what we're 
receiving We consume far more media than we use or scruti- 
nize, and thus have a surplus of data-based dead weight. Like 
Mc Ealing maniacs, we both love and loathe the serve- it-up 



Id be far n 



e enriching to 



Response to RAD article 



Call to action! 

The 5lh annual IPFW trip lo the dents, faculty, staff and alumni. The day 

Statchousc on Higher Education Day will be includes an 8 am. departure from the area in 

Wednesday, February 14. This day is set aside front of Kcltlcr Hall (on motor coaches), lunch 

for students from aetoss Ihc slate of Indiana lo at the Radisson Hotel, informal lour of the 

talk with their state legislators about increasing Statehouse. how-to-lobby your legislator les- 

fundinp to their respective campuses son, HI and Purdue briefings and a chance to 

IPFW ranks near Ihc bottom of (he list on meet one-on-one or in groups with your slate 

per full-time student funding. To compare, Ball senators and representatives We are expecting 

State University tfceivea S7.J I ; from the stale to return around 5:30 p.m 

ftr ttriti "'H-ItTYI* l""*f"i 1U Kokomo receives To sign up (or a free bus seal, please call 

S5 .577 per full-time ilitdeiu, while IPFW only [2 19 US I -6807 and leave your name or stop in 

receives S4.33-I per full-lime student. Kcttler 142. 

Legislators want lo hear from students as 

lohow this fundinp is impacting them and Iheir Jennifer Bosk 

educational needs. The day-long Irip to Director of Alumni Relations 
Indianapolis is completely free to IPFW stu- 

On campus resource profile and review: 

Transitional Studies 

WHO: TRANSITIONAL STUDIES 
WHAT" Academic department 
WHERE: Kcttler Hall G23 
CONTACT Sally Fitch, secretary 





but how could you think it was ok to 


prisons ore on the rise and crimes c 




print this rubbish? If this story had been 


milted by women are also on the 


1 am writing lo you about your arti- 


written lo the contrary, this story would 


But Men arc always to blame loi a 


cle written in the Jan. 1 1 issue. The piece 


have created so much controversy you 


Ihc atrocities ituunlt women 1 think 


1 am referring lo entails the Bashing of 


would nol have even wrilten it. You do 


irup.irl.int In have Kape Awareness 


MEN. This is very discerning to me I 


nothing but promote a separatist altitude 


Defense (RAD). 


thought wc were at a school that looks 


to gel people to read your tabloid papci 


In Tact, 1 would like (a have 


for diversity. This type of article is dis- 




wife join this group because 1 am 






always there to protect her Wo. 








ment made hy Jeff Davis. The paragraph 


a certain group and call them all bad 




reads, "According lo Davis, Ihc free 


because of a few statistics. If you had 




classes arc offered lo women only. Wc 


really done your homework you would 


(See RAD Article, com., page 3) 


don I want to teach rapists our tech- 


have found that women are not the only 





Instruction (SI): Supplemental 
Instruction is a cross between lutoring 
and R150 (A Reading and Writing 
class)." Anderson said. SI is led by 
advanced students, who suggest study 
strategies, discuss passible test ques- 
tions and help students synthesize lec- 
tures and reading materials Some 
instructors otler extra credit lo students 
who part'clpale in SI groups. 

Study Strategies: For some siu&lt; 

dents whose n alive language Is nol 
i. Friday. English, placement in Iho R150 

"Tutoring ol all types (see below) can be Reaoi'tj and Wntng course may be a 
on Saturdays and alters p.m., but "live' requirement The course's goals are to 
(vs. electronic) tutoring only lakes place help students become proficient in the 
on campus. English language and recognize their 

Tt ways Ol learning. 



NEEDS OF THE DEPARTMENT: 

"Funding Is always a consideration,' 
Anderson said. "We never can predict 



WEB ADDRESS www.iplw.edu/lrs 



good tutors. The 

mens sometimes means lb, 

tulors who can gel concepts across. We 

need lor students who have profited 

(rem us lo spread the good news. II 

we're good, share It with others. II we 

need to Improve, share it with us." 

OPINIONS &amp; INPUT FROM STU- 
DENTS WHO HAVE EXPERIENCE 
WITH THE DEPARTMENT: Previous 



remarkably we II -organized and accessi- 
ble. Their website is attractive: it is spe- 
cific enough lo find answers quickly yet 
ional enough that the reader 
couraged to pursue more iniorma- 
The schedule for Drop-In Tutoring 
. we neeo is available on Us website, under Ihe 
ol depart- link by Ihe same name. 



Trans it ia 



il Sludie: 



SPECIFIC SERVICES &amp; BENEFITS 

TO STUDENTS: Transitional Studies 
oilers various types ol tutoring, study 
strategies and Supplemental 
Instruction. 

Tutoring: Upon the condition that 
tutors ate available, students are eligi- 
ble lor two free hours ol tutoring per 
week. According lo Developmental 
Skills Specialist Greg Anderson, "most 
of the time all tutoring needs ere met.* 

Tulonng can be one-on-one, on a 
drop-in basis (usually lor math or chem- 
istry or online (math) tulonng via email. 
Tutoring is a privilege which can be lost 

without a two- hour notice. Also, accord- 
ing lo Anderson, sludenls must come 
prepared lor the session. 'Even when 
you seek help, you have to be prepared 
lo get help.* he said. 






Also: English-a 



j-second-lj 



SPECIAL FEATURES WHICH NECES- 
SARILY ENHANCE THE QUALITY 
AND VALUE OF SERVICES: "I think 
our stall Is one ol the most dedicated 
and caring on campus." Anderson said. 
"We rejoice when students succeed, 
and we try different avenues or paths 
when students are struggling." 

Transitional Studies' approach 
integrales Ihe strengths ol advanced 
sludenls and trained faculty lo meel 
specific needs ol individual students. 

OUTLOOKS/PROSPECTS FOR THE 
FUTURE: Anderson said Transitional 
Studies Is constantly asking itself how il 
can provide better and more services lo 
students. 'College is about learning 



Ihe department was very supportive. 
They need you as a tutor and support 
you as a sludant. It's a real benefit 
when someone 'gels it.' Especially as a 
reluming adult, it lakes a lol ol pressure 
Off ol you to have thai help. Transitional 
Studies lets you ask those silly ques- 
tions. I've also developed a lol ol irue 
and lasting friendships as a result ol my 
Involvement with the department." 

Studeni Body President Nick Gray 
said, Transitional Studies Is a wonder- 
ful asset to the university and to the stu- 
dents, because it helps lutor you in your 
classes. They do a good job helping 
students adapt to college-level 

EDITORIAL COMMENTARY, CON- 
STRUCTIVE CRITICISM AND SUG- 
GESTIONS: Transitional Studies is 



For those who choose lo partici- 
pate in Supplemental Instruction, come 
prepared with questions, concerns or 
discussion topics relevant to Ihe course. 
Being prepared In this manner averts 
the opportunity lor SI lo lum inlo a 
"gripe and complain" session. 

Statistics found in the 'Annual 
Diss said. Report" link of their website are encour- 
iry support- aging. The philosophy and mission ol 
I know how Transitional Studies are congruent wilh 
As a tutor, the ways in which its goals are met. 
Transitional Studies provides remark- 
able services, which all students should 



Editorial Board Contact Us! 



dent lees. (Transitional Studies is par- 
tially lunded by Indiana -Purdue Student 
Government Association, whoso lunds 
are largely derived from student lees.) 

It may be helpful to have an on-line 
lorum in which sludenls can post their 
opinions about experiences with the 
department, for the benefit ol other stu- 
dents who may be apprehensive about 
seeking outside help in their studies. 
Also, a studeni mentoring program in 
which new students could seek counsel 
from and confide in experienced, suc- 
cessful students seems In accordance 
with Ihe nature and scope of the depart- 
ment's services. Overall, a very positive 
rating lor a warm and open department. 



Editorial Policy 



Todd 1 1 .inim Editor 
Heidi Saliba. Mumming Editor 
Mishanna Wood. rYewx Editor 
Gloria dc Farla, Chief Reporter 
Adam Taylor, Fcaurei Editor 
Nathan Die hi. Sporti Editor 
Eric Tan. Editorial Cartoonut 
Katby Dclagrsngc, Copy Editor 
Brian Miller, Ad\ertuing Monagtr 
Doric Reynolds, Publisher 



E-mail: si u pa per &lt;g holmes, ipfu.et 

Ttltphoiu: 

Editor: 481-6584 

Publisher: 48 1 -61" 85 

Advertising: 4S1-6SS3 

Fax:481-6045 



They do not necessarily refleel Ihe views of IPFW. its employees or 
its student body. A column is solely the opinion of its author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from its readers.. 
Letters lo the Editor and guest columns must be signed, dated and 
accompanied by a current, valid address. 

All submissions made via e-mail must be verified by phone or 
in person. Submissions via mail or e-mail without Ihis information 
will nol be published. 
Class standing or utle 



o requested. Addresses and phone published ur 



DEPARTMENTS 
SCHEDULED FOR 
FUTURE REVIEW 



Below are some ol the departments lo 
be reviewed in Ihe coming weeks. 
Please contact Managing Editor Heidi 
Saliba by email il your area or organiza- 
tion is nol included and you would like it 
to be conisidered lor a review. 

Multicultural Services 

Campus Ministry 

The Writing Center 

Neff Hall Macintosh Learning 

Lab 

Information S Technology 

Services 

Student Life 

Gales Gymnasium 

Helmke Library 

Center (or Women 5 Returning 

Adults 

Continuing Studies 

Police &amp; Safety 

Indiana-Purdue Student 

Government 

Association 
Studeni Activities Board 
The Communicator 
Career Services 
Language Labs 
Services for Students With 
Disabilities 
New Health Clinic in Walb Union 



m the Friday before Ihe issue is pr 



The editorial board of The Communicator reserves the right to 
edit all submissions for length, grammar, style and clarity. Letters 
deemed libelous by The Communicator's editorial board will not be 



Opinions 



nnin iciilor Page 3 



Consider this... 
Liberalism vs. neo-orthodoxy 



by Eric Tan, Editorial Cartoonist 



"Consider this" is a new feature ol the 
Opinions Page which will list a quote or two (or 
consideration and scrutiny. The quotes are not 
Intended to rotlecl or endorse any particular view- 
point, but raider to provide starting points tor dis- 
cussion. Please respond to. sound Oil. support or 
challenge these quotes via submissions to the 
edilor. (The stall editorial lor this week Is one 
example ol a way to respond to a previous week's 
quoie(s).) 

The quole lor ihis week (below) Is (rom Dr. 
Martin Luiher King, Jr. Although it is tar lengthier 
than quotes lor future columns, it addresses sev- 
eral ideological topics which still have relevance 
and implications in the headlines of today's news. 
What do you think? 



stou: 






malion (or s 



by itself is lit- 
tle more than an instrumem lo justify man's defen- 
sive ways ol thinking. Reason, devoid ol puniying 
power ot faith, can never Iree itself Irom distor- 
tions and rationalizations. 



...In spite ol the (act that I had 
aspects of liberalism, I never came lo an all-oul 
acceptance of neo-orthodoxy While I saw neo- 
orthodoxy as a helpful correciive lor a liberalism 
that had become loo sentimental, I never fell thai 
it provided an adequate answer lo the basic 

II liberalism was too oplimistic concerning 
human nature, neo-orthodoxy was too pes- 
simistic. ..In its revolt against liberalism's overem- 
nhask on the power ol reason, neo-odhodoxy fell 
mood ol — "■ 






". ,. there is one phase ol 
liberalism that I hope lo cher- 
ish always: its devotion to the 
search lor truth, its insistence 
on an open and analytical 
mind, its refusal lo abandon 
the best light of reason. 
Liberalism's contnOulion to 
the phllotogical-hisloncal criti- 
cism of biblical literature has 
been ol immeasurable value 
and should be delended with 



There is one phase of liberalism 
that I hope to cherish always: its 
devotion to the search for truth, 
its insistence on an open and 
analytical mind, and its refusal 
to abandon the best light of rea- 



-Martin Luther King Junior 






passion... 

that liberalism's superficial optimism concerning 

human n a lure caused it to overlook the fact thai 



sing f 



This approach. Melt, was 
inadequate both for the 
church and lor personal 
life So alihough liberal- 
Ism left me unsalished on 
the question ol the nalure 
ol man. I lound no reluge 
In nee- orthodoxy.. .An 
adequate understanding 
ol man is lound neither in 

nor in the antithesis ol 
neo-orthodoxy, but in a 
svnthesis which recon- 




The more I thought aboul human n 



(RAD Article, cont. Irom c- 






And thai is a shame be 
students need an objective view on subjects s 
they can make decisions for themselves. This 



This shows [he progress we still h; 



I do nol dispule that. 1 am concerned wiih the way l f™.l u P el 
you promote it. Not all Men are bad. Most are caring " ' 
and sensitive despite what their peers think. And peo- 
ple like you malt ii hard lor ■ &gt;ihcrs 1. 1 think in terms of 
equality. You condemn others for segregating a group 
but it is ok for you ID do it This is nothing more than 
hypocrisy and this paper and school should not pro- 
male it. But seeing that you are the editor I guess you 
will do what you like. 

I 'hope you can understand my point. If you 
always itun!: ol yourself a&gt; a victim, you will be a vic- 
tim. But if you think of yourself as a survivor you will 



Alternative view on King Day 



u that I will never again read t) 



the 



Ayn 



Rand 



J by 



M e d i a L i n 

(hltp:/(www aynrand org/medi- 

alinW). In this column. Martin 

Luther King. Jr. Day [which was 

celebrated this past Monday. Jan 

ISl is commented on b&gt; Edwin A 

Locke. 

Locke is a professor of man- 
agement at the University ol 
Maryland at College Park and a 
senior wriiei for the Ayn Rand 
Institute in Manna del Rey. Calif. 
The Institute prntinuc'. the philum 
phy of Ayn Rand, author of Alias 
Shrugged and The Fountainhead. 

What we should remem- 
ber on Martin Luther 
King Day Judge people 
by their character, not 
skin color 

By Edwin A. Locke 



What should 
Martin Luther King Day? In his "I 
Have a Dream" speech Dr. King 
said: "I have a dream that my four 
children will one day live in a 
nation where they will not be 
judged hy the color of their skin but 
by the content of their character." 

This statement, made before 
King became an advocate of "black 
power." means that in judging other 
men. skin color should be ignored 
— that it &gt;hou!d nol be a factor in 
evaluating their competence or 
moral stature. It follows dial skin 
color should not be a factor in ilk- 



Consider the realm of work 
as a case in pomi Taking jons .may 
from one group in order lo compen- 
sate a second group to correct injus- 
tice) caused hy a third group who 
mistreated a fourth group at an ear- 
lier point in history (e.g.. I860) is 
absurd on (he face of it and does not 
promote justice: rather, it does the 
opposite. It promotes racism. You 

racism. Singling out one group for 
special favors [through affirmative 
action) Ignores the fact that people 
are individuals — nol interchange- 
able ciphers in an amorphous col- 



mains the sami 
ir color with s 



The traditional solution to 
problem of racism is cotor-bl 
ncss. or. from die other side of 



example, in the job sphere there ar 
only three essential things a 
employer needs to know aboul a: 
individual applicant: (I) Does th 
person have the relevant ability an 
knowledge (or the capacity to I ear 
readily)? (2| Is the person willing t&lt; 
e»ert the needed effort? and (3 
Docs the person have good charac 
ter. e.g.. honesty, integrity? 



rational alternative to 
lily, focusing on the Col- 



in 1936. the XYZ 

Corporation refused 
to hire redheaded 

bias on the pact of its 
founder. The founder 
now dies, and an 
enlightened board of 
directors decides that 
something "positive" 

compensate for past 



"The rational 
alternative to 

al diversity is 
to focus on the 
individual and to 
treat each individ- 
ual according to 
his own merits." 

—Edwin A. Locke 



law enforcement to 

ve always abhorred 

it is. granting status 
d privilege (and, 
nveisely, inferiorily 

ne's hercd- 






ii and u 



Observe that (1) this does not 
help the real victims — the previ- 
ously eicluded redheads: (2) the 
newly favored redheads have not 
been victims of discrimination in 
yet unfairly benefit from i 



itary caste, because it 
the principle that what counts ai 
the self-made characteristics po: 
sessed by each individua 
Americans should abhor racism, i 
ly form, for the same reason. 



d(3)tl 



non- redheads who are focus on the proper a 



What has happened in Ihe 
yean following King's murder is 
the opposite of the "I Have a 
Dream" quote above. Color blind- 
ness now has been replaced with 
color preference in (he form of 
affirmative action. No amount of 
ralionaliung can disguise the fact 



olhe 






n and u 



Wew 



look beyond 
the superficialities of skin color and 
The proper solution, of to judge people on what really mat- 
course, is simply id stop disenmi- ten. namely, "die content of their 
rating based on irrelevant factors, character." 
Although redheaded bits is nol a 



Theatre major wins award 



The IPFW Department of Theatre announced 
Monday that junior thejlrc major Betsy Brciicnbach 
won tint place honors in ihe One-Act Playwrighting 
Competition at Ihe 33rd annual Kennedy Center 
American College Theater Festival regional competi- 
tion in Milwaot.cc mi Saturday. January 13. 

Brciicnbaih\ original one-act play. Atlas's Cigar 
was one of sis fmali-.o. in ihe regional competition com- 
prised of Indiana, Ohio. Michigan. Illinois and 
Wisconsin. Eleven . utter pl.ivu.NTmr entries, a total of 
12 from the region, were al.o pan ol final competition. 
One of those twelve entrant-, was Jonathan Gilbert, also 
a junior theatre majnr at IPFW Umli talented students 
were selected as [instill! from a school with no forma! 
playwrighting program. 

"Atlas' Cigar" is a one-act play about Ihe lack of 



responsibility and lack of understanding on behalf of 

last Aug. II and 12 at IPFW as pan of an event entilled 
"Between the Moiion and ihe Act! An Evening of 
i irij'in.ii One-Acts." 

Brciicnbach said after winning her award that "I'm 
still in a stale of shock. Everyone started screaming 
when my name was announced, eiciled for me and 
department because we all realized wha 



.nc.lhi. 






IPFW \ 



Campus 

* Calendar 



for Jan. 19-Feb. 1, 2001 



January 

19 Faculty Artist Series: "Music for Clarinel 
and Bassoon,* Benjamin C Christy and 
Lawrence J Stewart. NF Recital Hall, 
7:30 p. m .for information. call 6714, 

20 Fitness class: Saturday Circuit of 
Surprises, Saturday, 9-10 a m., $27 per 
person; continues through March 10. 
Basketball vs. University of Mlssouri- 
SL Louis, GC. women. 1 p.m ; men, 
3:15 p.m. 

Saturday Sessions al Borders: "Camp 
Scott Fort Wayne's WWII German POW 
Camp." Clifford H Scott, Borders 
Bookstore. 1 p.m . for informaiion, call 
6809, 

23 AAUW-lPFWBook Discussion Group, 
The Reader by Bemhard Schlink, KT 101. 
noon, guests and brown-bag lunches 
welcome For informabon, call 6833 

26 Deadline for the Christlane I. Seiler 
Poetry Contest entries; for information, 
call 6637. 

Application deadline lor SSOO 
engineering scholarship; for 
information, call John Kalb, 800-777-54 13 

February 
1 Visual Arts: Graphic Design Exhibition 
featuring Regional Professionals, VA 
Gallery: Monday-Saturday. 7 am - 
9 p.m.. weekends. 9 a.m-6 p.m. 
continues through Apni 6. For 
in formation, call 5705 



n, 7:45 p.m. 

Upcoming Events 
5 Black History Month Film Series: 

Africans m America, WU 116, noon; also 
Feb. 12, 19. and 26 Discussion follows 
each film. For information, call 6608. 

8 Visual and Performing Arts Career Day, 
VvT. 9:15-11 55 am , for informaiion. call 
6812. 

Omnibus Lecture Sarins presents Brent 
Staples, "The Crisis in Education.' WU 
Ballroom. 7:30 p.m.; for information, call 
6608. 

9 Theatre: Blood Wedding, WT. 8 p.m.; 
also Feb. 10, 15, 16, and 17. For 

information, call the box office at 6555. 

13 Fort Wayne Community Band in concert 
with IPFW Symphonic Winds, Scottish 
Rite Auditorium, 730 p.m For 
information, caII6714. 

21 Engineering and Technology Career 

Day, NF. 9-1 1:30 am; for information, 
call 6612. 

Northeastern Indiana Career and 
Employment (NICE) Expo, Grand Wayne 
Center, 3-7 p.m. To register, call Richard 
Baxter. 21 9-744-8699. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



January 18, 2001 



Features 



The Communicator Page 4 



'Traffic' submerges 
viewer in world 
of cocaine 



Some would say that the point of Ihc war on 
drug* i) noi the drug* themselves, bui the people 
affected by them The same can be said Tor David 
Soderberg's acclaimed new f.lm, 'Traffic " 

Cocaine is central to ihc film, bui it it noi real- 
ly about the drug ll is about cocaine dealers, or traf- 
fickers. DEA agents un their tuih jnd nth politicians 
whose children snort and smoke cocaine right in their 



Getting involved 



TViffieT 

partner busun 
Slates-Me»ic&lt; 



with Bemc 



DcITi 



Traffic" stars 

Benicio Del Toro, 

Michael Douglas, 

Don Cheadle, and 

Catherine Zeta 

Jones. 

+ *ir1 



Sutei, two San Diego DEA agents, played by Eton 
Cheadle and Lulv tiurmjn uslm kith appeared 
Soderberg's slick l»7 film "Out of Sighi"), finally 
bust a local dealer (Miguel Perm) they hnve' 

whose wife is played by Catherine Zeta In 

The low-level dealer. Ruii. proceed: 
against his boss in exchange for a lighter s 

Cut lo Ihc inauguration of the new 
played by Michael Douglas Neit we are shown 
Douglas, his char.ulci'h wife and their daugliK 

their Cincinnati h c The daughter ll 16 and goi 

small panics where she gets high Her boyfriend 
(played by Topher Grace I gets her Id try free-based 
cocaine, which he produces Pretty soon she is 
hooked and spend 1 , most of her time gcllinp high 

When Douglas finds out, he and his wife dis 
agree on how they should punish her. Douglas want; 
lo lock her in her room for good. The mother wanu 
to be much more lenient She uanis her daughter tc 
be allowed to "cipciimcnt" and "find things out fot 
herself." Douglas decides to send her 
anonymous group, from which she runs away. Broke 
and needing a fn.shc goes to her dealer's place inlhr 
Cincinnati ghclu. and starts selling her body for' ' 

Meanwhile, the movie builds and develops the 
stories of Del Tom and Cheadles characters. Del 
Toro starts working for the Mexican Army general 
who look over his arrests in the first pan of the 

Cheadle and his partner continue to build (heir 
ease against Zeta lones's husband Zeta Jones's char- 
acter quickly loses her naivete and becomes strong 

'ly takes over her husband's 

: is in custody. 

The movie is shot in an unconventional style in 
that Ihc coloring ol Ihc film is skewed Isnghis seem 
overly bright and dirlu and greys arc not lightened 
up Often the camera seems slightly out of focus. 

After seeing the movie, I didn't feel any differ- 
ently about cocaine than 1 had before going into the 
theater It remained an awful, devastating drug. 

I was, however, lefl with pethn.pi a better under- 
standing of how involved people can become with 
such a drug, and lo svhai clients some of them will go 
to obtain it or prevent it from being sold. 



drug tralfick 




Advertising Works 

$^481-6583 1$ 



BURRITOS AS BIG AS YOUR HEAD! 



Tacos &amp; Tortas, Too! 

"We 're Hard to Handle 
but easy to Love!" ® 




Authentic Fast Mexican Food! 



Marketplace of Canterbury • Next to Piere's 
5706 St. Joe Rd., Ft. Wayne • 219-485-4363 



The Communicator is 
always looking for new 
faces to join its staff. If 

you're looking for a 
way to get involved in 
your campus, stop by 
Walb 215 today!!! * 



Features 



In the Limelight 



Sampling spurs success 
for singer Dido 




"The Marshall Mathers 
LP" d-nuled at number 
one on the -Billboard' 
album chart the week of it* 
release. That same week, a 
year after its first release. 



. "No I 



iger 



101 bad considering 
i tile people had heard 
in the past. 
"No Angel" starts 
ui with 'Here With Me." 
passionate. Jtl somewhat 
ark sonfi about lovesick- 
the "morning alter.' 
: With Me" is a 
Iodic rendition of lone- 
thai conjures feel- 
gs of sympathy and pity 






icof 



tfuses to call her 
friends in lieu of hei love, 

■.UL-i'L-iliiij; .he's only Innc- 
ly for love and not other 
people. 

The neil song on 
the album, "Hunter," is dif- 

being alone over being 

Photo courtesy of www.vh1.com ",'"' sume,mc : d «- Saying 

I want 10 be a hunter 

... _ . again," Dido is casting 

by Adam laylor away love while searching for fragments of the life she 

Features Editor used i„ |j vc u a single woman. Dido's confident, yet 

soothing English accent coupled with a forceful, yet 

calming sound yields the image of a woman who lives 

In 1907. .Sen I'uFfy t'umtis tontrmeisully Mini- mi-ie for livmg'lhan for i it lie r people, someone whu is 

plod mu.Mi from Sunt' 1 - llscry Ilrealh Von Take" in his happier In ins the life of an independent, single woman. 

tribute lo his muiJ-.R.I iriend (Vl-.n-iopher WjIIjcc (the The m&amp;sape nf luppmi:-. in bemj! single is kept 

Notorious R.l.fj "i tided "I'll Be Missing Vou ." Ever solely in "Hunter" as the majority of Ihe remainder of 

since then, sampling music from hit singles has become ihc songs on 'No Anpel' arc songs written about lost 

such a common occurrence in hip-hop music thai it loves or about the greatness of love in general. For 

often is oicrl....leJ S.impli,.;- another artist's music can c.ample, ihc beautifully haunting ballad. "My Lover's 

be both good and bad as it pays tribute to ihe anisls Gone." sings of a woman who was in love with a sea- 

whilc copying their work It can also introduce a new man who died an untimely death This iong is a very 

anist into pop culture via a smash hit by an already beautiful sone. K-jimiiirin like a traditional ballad and 

famous rapper whose mujicisalieadyindempnd.il wis mixing in a techno sound. In "My Unci's Gone." Dido 

inlhisway lhai pop culture was introduced 10 Dido successfully display* her reverence for tradiiion.il music 

Dido, whose full name is Dido Armstrong, is a style while showcasing her handle on more modem 

sinter songwriter from London who debuted her "No techniques. 

AneeT album in 1WI She leceised good reviews for Another very well done love song is the song that 

her firsi endeavor and even had the honors of having one brouilu her mio ihe spotlight in the first place, "Thank 
You." In "Thank You." Dido sings aboul love as an 
independent woman once again, praising her love inter- 
est for muling a bad day cnod just hv talking to her on 
release of "No Angel " Despite these accolades, the phone Though it couldn't be ascertained by hearing 
Ihe Sample Eminem used in his song. Thank You" is a 
very calm, very serene and very well-inicnded song. It 
definitely deserves a spot among Dido's belter songs. 
Though he may not have known what he was 
Real Slim Shady." We doing at the lime, when Eminem used a sample from 
- -ile about an obsessed Dido's song Thank Ynu," he introduced Ihe world to a 
' ' treasure previously hidden in the lalcw of London, lust 
like her English predecessors in ihe early days of rock. 
Dido looks to be making a niche for herself in pop cul- 
ture. With her debu! album resurrected, Dido is enjoying 
the fruits of success all over again. 



e With Me." chosen for ihe thcm&lt; 
song for the show "Roswell" and another. Thank You,' 
ncludcd on the "Sliding Doot 
c release of "No Anj ' " " 

2000 release of Eminem's highly a 
album The Marshall Mathers LP 
With the release of The Mar 
world was introduced 
were also introduced (o 
fan in "Stan." which introduced a hauntingly beautiful 
sound thai accompanied Ihe story of Stan perfectly. The 
woman behind thai sound was Dido, whose irack 
Thank You" was sampled to juxtapose the innocence of 
admiraiion and ihe honor of having an obsessed fan 



isip.iW sopbon 
ill Mathers LP." Ihc 



A message from the features editor 



new position, the old way of doing 
thing* often changes wiih Ihc per- 
sonnel change As a result. I thought 
1 would introduce to the campus my 
aims for the features section during 

Since coming to campus. 1 
have stnved to promote life on cam- 
pus to Ihe best of my ability in 
everything I have done. A wish to 
see the campus prosper is why 1 
have worked at The Communicator 
in Ihc past and is why I work here 
now 1 belicse there arc many ways 
in which campus life can grow and 
mature and that participation from 
die studeni body in the various 
events and programs IPFW offers is 
probably ihc soundest of these ways. 
Therefore, what I seek to accoro- 



wheihcr the event is held by SAB. 
ihe theater department, or whoever. 
Whether I succeed or not I'll never 
be able lo lefl as people w til do what 
they want and go where they wanl. 
My efforts may only change Ihe 
lives of a few people, but at Icasi 
they could potentially make a differ- 
ence 1 wouldn't have lhal if I didr ' 
try. 

On lop of campus life prom 
lion, ihough, I hope to provide 
service for those siudenis who. lil 
myself, are often sluck here wi 
nothing fun to do. I hope toenterta 
people through my fcalur 



this stuff. I understand, but I do have 

Lastly, I hope to continue the 
legacy of this paper and represent 
myself in Ihe least disrespectful 
manner possible. I do this job 
because I like it. not because I like 



Until that happens. I hope you enjoy 
my work and I hope to hear from 
you all in ihe fulure. 



offer rr 



Ithiiil 



Respectfully, 
Adam Taylor 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



JOIN OUR WAREHOUSE TEAM &amp; WORK IN A FRIENDLY ENVIRONMENT. 

■ Work part-time new/full-time in the summer 

■ Duties include erder filling (includes seme light lifting up to Mlbj) 

■ Starting at 37-50 



Contact Mark or Tom: 
(219) 478-1121 Monday-Friday 



Jnited 

I Art and Education [ I 
4413 Dilnii Read. Fort Wiyit, IN 



Catop Chaos brings new 
*Me to satire via tfce wet 



Any fan c 



: nighl ( 



Saturday Night Use knows thai 
when something major happens in 
the news that divides ihc country, 
there ij a wide range of media that 
tries to capitalize upon its contro- 
versy through parody. As u has 
grown over Ihe years, the Internet 
has even made ilself open lo doing 
these parodies, surpassing Ihe olh- 
crs in some regards via mocking 
websites, sound files and eanoons. 
There are even web cartoon seg- 
Ihat play like Saturday 
morning cartoons which poke fun 
at big ilems in the news. Saliie is 
the specially of ihe founders of 
Camp Chaos at www.cam- 
pchaos.com specialize in. 

Through the programming 
language Flash, the webmasters al 
Camp Chaos bring to its audiences 
numerous web cannons lhal poke 
fun of everything from MTV's 
popular show "Jackass* lo ihe 2000 
presidential race lhal captivated Ihe 
nation. Perhaps the mosl famous of 
their spoofs, however, is a series of 

vcrsy surrounding Ihc band 
Mctallica's choice lo sue ihe online 
mp3 trading program Napster In 
ihese cartoons, called the "Napster 
Bad" series. MeUllica band mem- 
James Helfteld and Lars 



and the people 



who use n are 'gra buses " In one 
cartoon called "Metallicops," they 
even cruise around looking fur 
people who use n. In a later car- 
loon. Helfield makes his way to 
-Who Wants to be a Millionaire?' 
These cartoons are cacellenl for 
anyone even remmely familiar 
with Metallica or Napster. 

Another good cailoon found 
on ihe silc is Ihe "Flori-Duh" car- 
loon posted on Nov. 17 Inlhiscar- 
toon. which is one of iwo in ihe 
"Spank Ihe \faic Camp-Pain 3000" 
series. George W Bush addresses 
the people of Florida 



for the songs "AM Radio' .., 
Everclear and "Hell On lliph 
Heels' by Motley Crue They al 
created other original clrXOOru, Q 
of which t&gt; a lengthy sencs called 
■Monkey IW President' wheieihey 
follow the campaign of a monkey 



I this SCI 

nnkcy yj 



appeals i 



d Mori 



Itcnng rr 






president I. gelling his 
name wrong, miscounting Ihe 
points he hopes lo address and 
other idiolic things. The other car- 
loon in the series, called The 
Fashion Debate. " is a scripted 
debate targeted towards the fashion 
industry lhal has everything from a 
robot Goic. a beer swilling Bush, a 
rapping Liebcrman and gucsl 
appearances hy Madonna and 
Helfield. Though I personally did. 
n't find it as funny ns Ihc other car- 
loons on Camp Chaos' website. I 
still found it jmii-niL' 

Though Ihey may be funny, 
Camp Chan '-' 



ol hyper children, fundraising com- 
mercials, infomercials. a cancelled 
Super Bowl commercial and all 
kinds of oiher ridiculous cartoons 
Unfortunately, ihc scries ended Ijm 
April and didn't follow along with 
Ihc real presidential campaign 
Thai could hayc led lo some really 
good cartoons 

Games arc another feature on 
the Camp Chaos website, using the 
same Flash technology, Their 
games include such lilies as 'The 
Wrath of Sanla." where an elf ir 
10 (lee Jolly St. Nick after malt 
him mad, and the "Pep«i-G 
Wheel of Death." a vindictive and 
lolenl game involving Ihe girl 



l Ihe I 



I. spokespc 



don't mind the occasional 
uage and pokes al cclebn- 
ure to check out the Camp 



I their 






The Communicator is looking for people to review 

both movies and music this semester. 

Applicants should have an interest in their subject matter and be 

comfortable expressing their opinion. 

Stop by Walb 215 and apply in person 

or e-mail us at stupaper@holmes.ipfw.edu. 




E5BE3EB 

Almost All Your 

Investments 

Are In Equities. 
You Need. Some 
Liquid Investments. 

Great, Another 
2,000 Ckoices 

To Consider, Right? 



There are plenty of Investment choices out there. And it certainly cm get confusing, 
even when choosing liquid Investments. So why not consider Series I Bonds. They're 
backed by Ihe US. Treasury, so every cent of your Investment is protected. They're 
guaranteed to stay ahead of Inflation for up to 30 years, and their interest is ruty 
exempt from state and local Income taxes. WhaCs more, you can get started wtlh as 
StSe as $50. you can purchase them where you bank, work, or through the new US. 
Savings Bonds EasySaver* - Plan. To find out more, visit us at wwwjuvmg3b0nds.gov, 
or write to I Bond investor's Guide, 

Parkersburg, WV 161 04- 1 388. 
I Bonds. They're one easy, and 
safe choice to consider. 

LMjycne nfeefc a Safe B*-t lo Crow 



■bout I Bonds, viifl oor website at wwvr saving s bond s.oov 

A pubic service of thrs newspaper : -'' 




ili.iHj.'hi-' 



How to score 
on a DI 
athlete 



eicuse (or a wannabe basketball player; 
dribbling ihe bjll near the top of ihe key 
jnd bein|! (rujided by a real life, genuine 
member of Ihe upper echelon of colle- 
giate athletics. A 
Division I basket- 
ball player In Ihe 
Gates Spurts Center. 
Guarding mel Who wouia navi 

So what did I do? Well, first i deem- 
ed to unleash a devastating crossover. 
Yet. somehow my Division 1 defender 
managed to hang with me as I drove into 
ihe lane Then a second player came over 

defcnder-splilling-betwccn-lhe-legs- 

DEnU/DiWlion I aihlctes/victims quiver- 
ing violently in my wake of basket ball 
supremacy. One point for my team, one 
move for the other team to remember 

And if you do not believe me about 
(he grandeur of thai majestical drive, just 
ask Brad Noll, starling (hooting guard on 
the PFW men's basketball team and son 
of Head Coach Doug Noll. Noll had 
come to the Sports Cenier for some 
recreational pick-up games and had (he 
misfortune of being selected for the team 
Opposinj mine. And if you still do not 
believe it ll understand why you might 
be doubling Moves like thai are hard to 
believe unless you tee them and even 
then belief still requires a small amount 
of faith), ask some of Ihe people who 
were his teammates on that fateful day 



There was a 



I did n 



niie, but he was wearing 1PFW basket- 
ball shorts and (here was a girl who 
claimed she too played for the 
Mastodons, but 1 cannot verify thai 
either. However, 1 can tell you that she 
may well have been Ihe best player on the 

Sec. all three ol the members o[ thai 
unfortunate team may well play for 
(PFW teams Ih at are making the trans t- 



players. but instead, 

i P i 



H technically Division 1 
'anal division 
3ugh for me 



So. I can sav I scored 
kctball player Ha Hal 

Whoever would have ihoughi? 
Whoever would have thought thai pathcl- 
ic little me would ever have had the 
Jur^e In pi jv wilh-kl alone sc.ne on-a 
Division 1 basketball player? What a won- 
derful world we live in. 

Now. 1PFW athletes are the real 
deal. They arc Ihe lop dogs. Ihe cream of 
Ihe crop, and well, those arc nil of the 



Sports 

Volleydons win big 
over Rutgers-Newark 



Lady Dons play Northern 
Kentucky 



Captain Jeff Puk put it well. 'Go 
Dons." Over 1.300 fans agreed with Ptak 
and gathered in Gates Sports Cenier on 
Saturday. Jan 13. to see Ptak and the 
Volleydons lake on Rutgers -Newark as part 
of Ihe annual 1PFW Invitational. The 
Volleydons did not let the crowd down, 
belling Rutgers in three straight games. 30- 
28. 30-20, 30-17. 

The Volleydons were led in their 
attack by Puk, who had 20 kills on 31 
attempts for a hilling percentage of .484. 
Josh Sanders added nine kills with a hilling 
percentage of .692. Arcangel Ruiz added 
eight kills and Mall Zbysiewski added 
nine. Rtiyen Staley had 41 assists for the 

Ptak attributed Saturday's win to total 
team effort. '1 think we played together as 
a learn real well. 1 ihoughi the first three 
players and the first three starters stepped it 
up and got all the jitters out and we played 
like a team tonight real good." 

"We are very close on and off the 



lasl year. We 
had a couple 
individual 
players, this 



We are very 
close on and off 
the court, unlike 
last year. We had a couple 
individual plyaers, this year 
everybody joins together on 
the court, trying to become 
a team. Off the court we're 
a team too and I think that 
helps out a lot." 



■Jeff Ptak, Men's 
Volleyball 
Captain. 




Asked about his role as ihe 
eader of IPFW volleyball, Plak 
■aid, "I'm eicited about it. I like lo 
te a leader, on and off the court. I 
love always been in other people's 

'm pretty confident about myself 



able 



C.iriie In hdfi put ihe ii ut of ri-jch. 

"I was cramping a lot in my legs. I 
was jut trying lo bit the ball and usi 
my upper body when I was playing My 

a lot of leadership tonight Instead ol 




mpus? Should u 



iraque 



suffer through ihe sam&lt; 
Psychology 120 class wilh them' 
Should we be honored lo pass ui 
their tests and homework assign 



iwcd ll 






Michigan State, but we arc getting 
up there, which means the players 
are getting up there, too 

If seeing a Big Ten athlete 
would evoke awe the way it docs 
in many hardcore fans, then see- 
ing a Mastodon should do the 
same. They are going to be 
Division I athletes. 

And it sounds really good to 
say you scored on one of them 

Especially if you leave out 
the little detail of the rest of the 



Writers Wanted: 




The Communicator is 

looking for writers for 

Sports, Features, Opinions 

and News. Please stop by 

Walb 215 to apply. 



thing to do 

Luckily, that's something that the 
tPFW women's basketball team wasn't 
afraid to tackle with Northern Kentucky 
The Dons fell behind early and struggled 
most of the first half against a tough 

The Dons went into half lime trailing 
40 24, bul began Ihe second half by slowly 
the game The Dons g 



w.lhm 



with .17 n 



before Northern Kentucky began to pull 
away again to a final score of 80-60. 

The Dons were led by Jamie 
Holderman and Trish Fleming, who had 24 
and 20 points, respectfully. 

The Dons return to action this week 
wilh a pair of home games; Quincy 
University on Thursday. Jan. IE. al S:30 
p.m. and the University of Missouri- Si 
Louis on Saturday, Jan. 20. al I p.m. 



Men's basketball fall 
Northern Kentucky 



but finishing Ihe game is a necessity. 

Taking Ihe court on Thursday, Jan. 1 1 
against Northern Kentucky, the Dons came 
oul strong and look a 4440 lead inlo half- 

The Dons struggled in the second 
half, however, shoolingjust 16-43 from the 
field, while Northern Kentucky was able to 
shoot .48 from the field for the game. 

The Dons were led in their attack by 
junior Man Shepherd, who came off the 
bench lo get a double, with lb points and 
1 1 rebounds. Brad Noll had a learn-high 24 
points while Jim Kcsscnich added II 
points and four rebounds. Nick Wise had 
10 points and four boards for the Dons. 
Point guard DcAngelo Woodall had eight 
points, cighi assists and four rct-nundi 

The Dons return lo action with a pair 
of home games against Quincy University 
on Jan 18 at 7:45 p.m and against the 
University of Missouri-St. Louis on 
Saturday. Jan. 20 at 3: 15 p.m Admission is 
free with a valid student ID. 



S to 



c/icyjryirrii/ic/icrirxicyitxicritxicricricricric/ic/i 



The Communicator is now 

accepting applications for 

the following paid positions: 

Advertising 

Manager &amp; 

Ad Designer 



The position of Advertising Manager offers 

a per issue base salary plus 15% 

commission for all local advertising sold. 

Additional responsibilities include weekly 

billing of clients and maintaining a sales 

register. 
The position of Ad Designer offers a per 

issue salary. Knowledge of Macintosh 

operating systems as well as layout and 

design skills are essential. 



To apply, submit a resume' to: 

The Commionicator 

Walb 215 

2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 

Walb Union, Suite 215 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

For additional information call 481-6585 



rxc/3&lt;X&lt;J3Cfl(/&gt;C/3Cfi&lt;J3C/3CflCflC/3C/3CflCflCfltX 



