Finding Witt with Wisdom: Part Three • Page 10 



Wednesday 
April 8, 2009 



Bfalume 39 
Bssue 26 



the 




^w www.ipfwcommunicatohorg 





!» ii. 





I Weigh in oh^tiiout^ 



By Louisa Danielson 

In every life, there comes a point when the bal- 
ance of the future is held in one pair of hands. 
Perhaps it's something as small as deciding the 
color of a bridesmaid dress. Or maybe the outcome 
will affect national security. Whatever the result 
for just that short amount of time, one person has 
to become a leader. 

What goes into making someone a good leader? 
How does a person learn to make good decisions, 
to connect the dots so that the rest of the world 
can function smoothly? ^ 

In search of answers to these questions, I 
conducted seven interviews of faculty at the 
IPFW campus. For every person interviewed. 
the focus on leadership came from a ^^ 
different angle. Although leadership can 
talce many forms, the main tenets remain 
the same, no matter the discipline. 



^ Leadership 101: Page! 




Aprils, 2009 IlGWS pg. 2 



► L£ADBtSKrP101 

From Page 1 



The first thing any leader needs is to be prepared. 
"I know what 1 want to do before I stan it," Anne 
Argasl, Professor of Geology said. 

"Plan the agenda," added Rosalie Haritun, 
Associate Professor of Music, You can encourage the 
best atmosphere forlearning by leLing people what is 
coming and by letting them know what you expect. It 
doesn't mean that the schedule has to be completely 
rigid: things can be altered in a way that will best 
help the organization. There should be a dependable 
agenda that people can rely upon so that they know 
how to prepare themselves. A pre-set schedule can 
prevent problems from occurring, "Set the agenda 
for a crowd - then they (can't) set it," said Michael 
Wolf, Associate Professor of PoUtical Science. There 
will always be someone who tries to bend the rules. It 
will always be easier to prevent that from happening 
ifyou know what the rules are ahead of time, 

A major part of good leadership also comes 
from a mutual respect that the people of the group 
and the person in charge have for each other, "You 
have to be perceived as someone who caies about 
the organization," commented Chancellor Michael 
Wartell. "You read your audience, try to figure out 
what they're going to respond to," Lauren Denbarlog, 
former Chief of Police concurred. "Show them that 
you'll go the extra mile. You definitely have to set the 
example. No task is too small," While there are people 
who will work simply for the benefit of the group, 
most people respond better to a setting in which they 
feel that they are a valued part of the organization. 
"Taking care of people is part of it," said Marc Lipman, 
Dean of the School of Arts and Sciences. 

Somedmes, taking care of people can be in the 
form of standing back and letting everything run 



without the manager becoming involved. At other Lipman. "You can see what works and what doesn't," 
times, the leader has to be in the front, guiding and Aigast added. "Practice!" asserted Haritun, Many 
building consensus within the group so that the things in life are unexpected. What happens if the 
whole organization can function. "Those who rise to hand-outs don't come through? What if the whole 
the top are able to persuade others," said Wolf. class had chocolate puddingbefore coming in to your 

And while persuasion can come in many forms, session, and now they're hyper? "Consider the worst 
there are a few definite ways in which it should not scenarioand (ask) whatwouldIdo?"said Haritun. She 
be manifested. "Yelling encourages yelling - it's not recalled a time when she was giving a presentation 
aneffeclive way of doing it," said Chancellor Wartell. and thought she had everything prepared. Then 
"You can always escalate up," noted Denhartog, "but a huge storm knocked out the power and killed 
ifyou start harsh and abrasive, it's hard to go back." the projector with her slides. Happily, she 

"Power is a poor substitute for persuasion," Wolf ^ — ^ was able to make It through the 

finished. ^r^^*^^ ^ — ~^ presentation with her handouts 

Sowheredoesapersonlearntobecomea r"^ \ alone. But it was a completely 

good leader? Chancellor Wartell suggested / "A major part of ^^ new experience for her. "You 
diattheprocessbeginsatanearlyage. J good leadership also ^~^ \eain not to get flustered," 

"A lot of the basic trails that you / comes from a mutual ) Haritun concluded. 

need fo, leadership you learn /-^ respect that the people of the V Good leadership isn't 

group and the person in charge 
have for each other." 



in your youth," he noted, 
saying that those habits 
you learn while you are 
young stay with you 
for life. lane Ehle, the 
Associate Director of 



something that 

learned overnight. 

People have to 

gain experience by 

watching others 

lead, and experiencing 



Individual Support Services, believes that people also the effects of good and not-as-great management, 

learn through experience, "Every situation allows you And people learn by trying to fill the role themselves. 

newpossibilities.ifyouallowyourself tobenefitfrom It can take years to learn, and it can be hard. "It 

them," she said. People are full of untapped resources, has to happen over a period of time," Haritun 

Sometimes all it takes is for someone to be exposed mused. "Maintain your sense of humor," Denhartog 

to a new situation; with every new experience, the recommended, 
human cache of knowledge grows. Then, if a similar And who knows? Every new opportunity is a 



occurrence ever happens, the person can recall past 

events and figure out how to handle a new situation. 

Finally there's the real life experience that teaches 

you the most. "A lot of it is on the job training," said 



learning experience. As Ehle put it, "You never know 
when that experience is going to expose you to what 
it is that you love," 



Last Friday, nearly 500 people showed their support for a passenger rail service to return lo 
Fort Wayne. Mayor Tom Henry, City CounriKvoman Karen Gnldner, Amlrack emissary Derrick 
James and othersspokeduringOieRaily for Rail event ai the old Baker Street Siaiion. 

"If ihe enthusiasm here is any measure, any guide lo whether we're going lo get passenger 
rail service back in Fort Wayne, I'm saying we'll get ii," James said Friday, 

Success in this endeavor would require stale legislators and Govemer Milch Daniels to get 

"1 look forward to being able to board a train in doivntoivn Fort Wayne, but only if we take 
action now," Henry said. 



Photo by Monica Gerdeman 





there's no home 
like Place 



Sign a lease today and 
receive August FREE! 

Resort Style Pool &amp; Hot tub 

Free Tanning 

IPod Docking Station in Every Apartment 

All inclusive 

Fuliy Furnished 



Joe Place 



smart student living.com 

5204 St. Joe Rood. Fort Wayne, IN 46835 

(260) 444-3000 

Left on Crescent Ave. Left on St. Joe Road. We're on ttie rigtit. 



April 8, 2009 



politics and money 



pg. 3 







CitrnM/ot^ O^cny ForuMs 



Student government elections hold question/ Audience targerts student involvement 
and answer session 



By Kim Coffey 

SchmilnOielpfw.cdu 



At 4 p.m. this past Monday after- 
noon, most of IPFW's student gov- 
ernment candidates gathered on the 
second floor of Walb Student Union 
to answer questions from the student 
body. Many issues were addressed, 
such as the topics of student involve- 
ment and campus enhancement. 

One questionnaire wanted to 
know what the candidates' "next big 
accomplishment" would be if they 
were eiecied. Vice President of Pro- 
gramming candidates, Mickey Smith 
and Nikita' Mathews both agreed that 
the Student Activities Board (SAB) 
needed a more comprehensive data- 
base. Mathews emphasized that she 
would like to show students what the 
SAB and student government truly is, 
and what the organizations can do. 
Vice President of Finance candidate, 
Erik Shepherd expressed his vision of 
an easy and efficient way for students 
to voice their ideas and opinions con- 
cerning the campus. 



Shepherds contender, Melissa 
Cornish and Vice President of Leg- 
islation candidate, Kody Tinnel rea- 
soned that "small things can make a 
huge difference", with Kody expand- 
ing on the ideas of new furniture 
for Walb and a possible bike rental 
program. Student Body Presidential 
candidate, Allison Westropp gave 
her thoughts on the importance of 
talking to the chancellor to discuss 
where money for certain projects 
went. Student body Presidential can- 
didate, DeAngelo Lavette expressed 
his interest in working with the SAB 
while his challenger Amanda Mark 
believes student government should 
concentrate on improving what stu- 
dent government currendy provides 
before moving towards larger goals. 

Questions that were directed to- 
wards more personal opinions were 
also asked, ranging from what the 
candidates thought of the student 
community as a whole to what they 
planned to do if not elected. 

Each candidate expressed an in- 
terest in remaining highly involved 
on campus, ranging from Andrew 
Stackhouse's ambition of running 



for president of United Sexualities to 
opening the door for someone with 
his or her arms full. 

One student targeted the candi- 
dates' involvement on campus by 
addressing an event that had been 
available that day: the Red Cross 
Blood Drive. "How many of you gave 
blood today?" he inquired. None of 
the candidates had been able to do- 
nate, and they each gave their own 
reasoning. Answers ranged from one 
sentence to lengthy monologues. Al- 
lison Westropp, who had helped or- 
ganize the Red Cross event, explained 
that she had been too busy setting it 
up to participate. The student who 
had asked summed up the ten min- 
ute round of answers, "So let me 
get this straight. No, no, no, no," he 
pouited to each candidate in turn. In 
response, the candidates applauded 
him and anyone else who had given 
blood that day. 

Candidates Open Forums 

Thursday, April 9 

11 a.m. -2 p.m. 

Walb Second Floor Lounge 



Inv^tini 




Tax- '^i^e Q^eductioi 

Credits that can save college students thousands 



By Jessie Ruckman 

lutlcRucknun 
elpfwcor 



For many Americans, tax 
time is a painful experi- 
ence, filled with danger 
lurking around every corner- dan- 
gers like having to pay more mon- 
ey to the government in one lump 
sum in lieu of receiving a refund. 
Luckily for most college students, 
we don't have to worry too much 
about owing someone else money, 
on top of everything else we're in- 
debted to. 

There are many college stu- 
dents who work only part-time, if 
at all, and on the other end of the 
spectrum there are the students 
who work a full-time job among 
other responsibilities, such as chil- 
dren and family. Though there are 
many shades in between the two 
extremes, lax season can be fairly 
pain free for students in every situ- 
ation. This may be one of the few 
reasons to thank the U.S. govern- 
ment, and here are some helpful 
lips tailored especially to help col- 
lege students save, and maybe to 
even get something back for the 
poverty-stricken school year: 



Hope Scholarship 1^ Credit: 
For the 2008 tax year, a student or 
family can claim up to Sl,800 for 
each eligible student. The Hope 
Tax Credit is only available until 
each student's first tivo years of 
postsecondary education are com- 
plete. TVpicaliy this is used for oniy 
freshmen and sophomores. The 
refund amount associated ivitli 
the Hope Credit also depends on 
your family's income, whether or 
not the student's family can claim 
the student, the amount of quali- 
fied tuition paid, and the amount 
of certain scholarships and allow- 
ances. If you've already used your 
HopeTax Credit, fear not: there are 
other options. 

Lifetime Learning Tax Credit- 
Students are eligible for up to a 
S2,000 tax credit per tax year, for 
an unlimited number of years. 
This is perfect for students tike 
me, who have been in college for 
so long that they can't remember 
life before college. According to 
http://NASFAA.org, "die Lifetime 
Learning credit is available for all 
years of postsecondary education 
and for courses taken to acquire or 
improve job skills." The students 
who do not qualify are those who 
are not erurolled in a specific pro- 



gram, or who do not take classes to 
enhance job skills. 

IXiition and Fees Tax Deduc- 
tion: NASF/\A states, "This tax de- 
duction was set to expire in 2008, 
but Congress extended tfiis benefit 
until Dec, 31, 2009 as part of the 
S700 billion economic stimulus 
package." This deduction benefits 
students who do not qualify for 
eitherthe Hope or Lifetime Learn- 
ing Education Tax Credits, and of- 
fers up to a S4,000 deduction from 
tuition and fees. 

Claim a Child I^ Deduction: 
With this credit, students with 
children may be able to reduce 
federal income tax owed by up to 
$1,000 for each child under age of 
17. There are income restrictions 
for both single and married par- 
ents, so be sure to check with your 
tax preparer about details. 

As with everything else in the 
financial world, be sure to do your 
homework and corrununicate 
with the person who is preparing 
your taxes so that you get the most 
money back. Oh, and by the way, 
don't blow all that cash on booze 
and tacos. Put some aside for a 
rainy day. 



IPSGA reflects on 
past year's projects 

By Kim Coffey 

Kim.Coffeyeipfwcommunicatot.org 

As the school year draws closer to an end, it 
helps to look back and consider the accomplish- 
ments of our student body and its representatives. 
Over the year, our student government has been 
working for us in order to better our campus life, 
and the campus itself. 

The organization now has a new logo that will 
be launching soon. The purpose of this project 
is to help raise campus awareness of our student 
government. Along these lines, a new project that 
has been proposed involves building a giant win- 
dow that iooks into the student goverrmient's of- 
fice. A flat screen television will be used to portray 
information about campus and its organizations. 
This works in conjunction wiih the government's 
new "open door policy" to encourage interaction 
between the students and out campus representa- 
tives. 

In order to improve campus, the government 
has been working with the smoker coalition to 
start marketing for smokers to stay away from 
doorways. Also, be looking for a new smoke hut 
that may appear next to Walb. 

The efficiency of that student government has 
also increased since last year. In the previous year, 
allocations handled by the legislative branch took 
almost a month to determine. This year, however, 
it only took one week. 

Any suggestions that a student may have to 
help better campus life or campus can be submit- 
ted at www.ipfw.edu/stugov. 



ipsga 



Picture courtesy of IPSGA 



April 8, 




Soak It In: Local rain gardens 
help clean up runoff water 



By Kelly McLendon 

Kelly.McLendon 
Sipfwcommuniatar.arg 



"A rain garden is a landscaped 
area that holds rain water run- 
off for a few hours to a few days. 
Rain gardens are planted with na- 
tive plants that help the soil soak 
up more water. These plants may 
improve the quality of the ^ 



Environmentally, as well as ec- 
onomically, it is worth it to start a 
rain garden. 

"Rain gardens can reduce run- 
off by as much as 70%." Slaton 
said. They can also "help reduce 
pollution in stonnwater and can 



Stormwater is an all-natural 
part of the enviromnent. It hap- 
pens when rain or melted snow that does runoff." according to the help— to some extent — to reduce 
travels over the ground and fails to Catching Rain website. local floodinE." 
absorb into the soil. In urban ar- The City is even offering a cash The National Risk Management 
eas, places like streets, sidewalks or plants incentive program to en- Research Laboratory, part of the 
and driveways prevent the storm- courage citizens to start their ov/n EPA, disagrees, 
water from going straight into the gardens. "While local governments and 
ground. Impervious surfaces like The incentive program is sim- individual homeowners are build- 
heavy-duty concrete, cannot soak pie and straightforward. To get ing many of the rain gardens in 
up the water; so instead, it runs off cash or plants, citizens must fill use, relatively few studies have 

docimiented the 
rain gardens' pol 



dovm to streams and 
waterways. 

It would not be a 
majorissue, except that 
stonnwater can pick 
up chemicals, such as 
pesticides, and trans- 
port them direcdy to " 
lakes and rivers. Those 
hazardous chemicals can then en- 
ter storm sewers, leeching bacteria 
into public drinking water. 

"Stormwater runoff carries pol- 
lutants such as automotive fluids 
from driveways, laivn chemicals 
such as fertilizers, and even bac- 
teria from pet waste. It also car- 
ries a lot of sediment and soil 



"Rain gardens are not the solution to 

all pollution and flooding problems, but 

they certainly help." 



lutant and nutrient 
removal capabil- 
ity." a report said. 

Although the 

current design 

of a rain garden 

is "successful for 

out an appLcation, attend a free the removal of heavy metals and 



phosphorous, it does not provide 
the right conditions for nitrite re- 
moval." 

Wliile a rain garden may not 
stop all environmental stormwater 
issues, it does serve a small pur- 



ins true tionai workshop, 

agreement to install and maintain 

and finally, register the garden on- 
line. Those who go through with 

those four steps will then be given 

plant match certificates to be re- 
deemed at participating nurseries pose in an urban community. 

and greenhouses. If choosing the "Rain gardens are not the solu- 

particles."Mary lane Slaton, City cash option, a check will be mailed tion to all pollution and flooding 
Utilities spokeswoman, said. following the workshops, problems, but they certainly help," 

Stormwater that is poUuted can The city will also offer free Slaton said. 

workshops throughout the next 

few months, for those interested in 

starting their own rain garden. 
Slaton is optimistic about the 

popularity of these programs. 
"We hope by combining the 

informational 'how-to' workshops 



Day of Silence 

Students to observe in 
thirteenth annual vow 

By Katy Anderson 

Kathiyn Anderson 
91 pfwcom muniutar.org 



Nine out of ten lesbian, gay, transgendered stu- 
dents have reported verbal, sexual or physical harass- 
ment at school and more than 30% report missing at 
least a day of school in the past month out of fear for 
their personal safety in a sitrvey done conducted by 
Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network. 

Several IPFW students will be participating in the 
thirteenth annual DayofSilence on Apr. 15. liieDay 
of SQence has become the largest single student-led 
action towards creating safer schools for people of 
any sexual orientation, gender identity, or form of 
gender expression. 

Students ranging from middle school to college 
take some form of a vow of silence to "bring atten- 
tion to the name-calling, bullying and harassment 
— in effect, the silencing — experienced by LGBT 
(lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender] students 
and their allies" according to the Gay, Lesbian and 
Straight Education Netivork. Supporters who are 
unable to take a vow of silence can also wear red 
to commemorate the day. 

Andrew Siackhouse, a member of Ututed Sexu- , 
alities, has helped organize the event and hopes 
that it will send a message to the community about 
individuals who are oppressed for their differenc- 
es, beliefs, and identity. 

"[The Day of Silence] is for anyone being si- 
lenced for what they beLeve or for who they are," 
Stackhouse said. 



have disastrous effects on the hu- 
man body. When the bacteria en- 
ters the water, severe contamina- 
tion can occur. Also, concentrated 
levels of pesticides maybe harmful. 
They could wreaJt havoc on your 
nervous system, leave you with s 



headache and vomiting; or cause with free technical assistance and 
an incentive program, that people 
who may think rain gardens are 
interesting but who might not oth- 
erwise plant one, will give it a try." 
she said. 

There is also ample building as- 
sistance available for this project. 
The technical assistance includes 
having a volunteer visit a citizen's 
home to help with questions. Ideas 
and planning of the garden space. 



potentially fatal reactions. In addi- 
tion to chemicals, E. coli bacteria is 
also a contamination threat. 

The City of Fort Wayne is work- 
ing hard to combat hazardous run- 
off, however. 

Catching Rain Fort Wayne is 
a new program that hopes to in- 
troduce "rain gardens" as feasible 
solutions to cleaning up the City's 
dirty stormwater. 



- ATTENTION SENIOES 



ENOIJAVB YOOB NAME AND CL4BB ■KEAB ON THE 



ALPMNI BBICK WALK 






-OSdertoDA!', 







OmnorPevelDD 






KeOler Hill Room 140 

Call 260-181-5727 crErailil klint;nVfl&gt;ipfw gdu 

Fay by credit curd lecurcl; Dl 



Letter to the Editor W 

Is there any room 
left to park? 

Il seems like there is nowhere to park when you 
drive into all the available parking lots al IPFW, and 
you follow people around just to get their parking 
spot. Feeling rushed to get to class or having to leave 
your house early just to find a parking spot is not how 
anyone wants to start their day. 

Everyday I hear someone complain about not 
being able to find a parking spot, or it feels like they 
are driving forever trying to find one. In college, we 
expect it to be different than in high school. Not 
as many rules, but more responsibility. We can't 
expect everything to just be given to us. If we have a 
problem, we take it up i,vith the administration to get 
it resolved. 

With the freshman class being as big as it is this 
year, parking has become a problem. It is said that 
parking is usually bad for the first two weeks of 
each semester, but this year it seems like it has been 
continously bad. 

Being a freshman, I didn't know what to expect for 
parking, I thought 1 would be able to pull right in and 
get a spot. I was wrong. I have to leave my house early 
just to be able to get a spot and not be late for class. 
People race around lots trying to beat another person 
to a parking spot someone is just pulling out of- it is 
crazy. 

There are certain dmes of the day when it is fine, 
but there are also limes when it is like rush hour. 
With so many people trying to park and get to classm 
accidents are bound to happen. If we were able to 
get a lot or two more, I believe this would solve our 
problem. IPFW is only becoming more known, and I 
think the enrollment next year '.vill be even bigger. For 
the school and student's safety, 1 beLeve we should 
try to find Tnocc space. It would benefit us all. 



April 8, 2009 perspectlvG 



pg. 5 



Dealing with grief is never an easy tasl&lt; 



Hana's Thoughts 

By Hana AhHawash 
hana.hawashOipfwcommiinicalor.org 



s 




Thoughl did receive aformal 
question from a student, we 
here at the Coitmiunicator feel 
that dealing with the death of a 
family member, friend or peer is very difficult, so I 
have put together some of my oivn thoughts as well 
as those of doctors &amp;om around America. Though 
I am no pysychologist, my credibilty comes fcom 
dealing with the death of my best friend in high 
school near the begirming of our senior year and 
what I have come to realize is that death, no matter 
where you come &amp;om and what you believe in, is 
extremely devastating. 

As college students, it is widely known that we 
tend to dismiss death as something that will not 
happen for a long time, if ever, because we are 
invincible, right? Lets think about that episode 
of Family Guy when death comes to visit Peter 
because Peter is supposed to die. He came to kill 
Peter, but instead he ends up deciding to take the 
lives of four random young people, just because. 
Though death is not a hooded skeleton, it can be 
lurking around any comer and can take those that 
we do not expect to be taken. 

So how do we deal with the death of someone 
so close to our hearts? To be realistic, there is no 
right way to do it. 

"There are no set rules or standards for 
what is healthy in grief," Daniel K. Hall-Flavin 
M.D., advising writer for ivwiv. mayo clinic, com, 
said. "Some people may be frequently teaxftil, 
and others may deal with loss in other ways of 
remembrance." 

According to' "the Memorial Hospital in 
Towanda, PA, there are five stages of grief: Denial 
and isolation, anger, bargaining, depression and 
acceptance. This is the normal process of grief, 
though it is not necessarily how all people deal with 
death. Some people stay in shock for a very long 
time and seem unaffected and some immediately 
turn into emotional ivrecks and human water 
fountains.ThereJsalso the type who hardens their 
self and becomes the rock for everyone else; this 
is probably the hardest type to be. As the rock, 
you become the person that everyone else calls 



Bloody Seal Massacre 

PETA campaigns against annual seal hunt 



By Kelly McLendon 

kelly.inclendon@lptwcammunicator.Dig 



When the United States harmed 
the sale of seal fur in 1972, they 
made astatement. One they hoped 
other countries would follow. But, 
alas, they didn't. In Canada, the 
annual seal himt continues this 
month. !t is the largest killing 
of marine mammals on Earth, 
according to PETA. Last year, more 
than 330,000 harp seals were killed 
in that country alone. 

The price to pay for fashion 
goes beyond monetary values. 
Wlien the seals arc capmred, they 
arc hit with clubs and dragged 
across the chilling ice with hooks 
piercing through their bodies. The 
himiers don't kill the seals from 
the beginning or 'put them out of 
their misery' quickly. Instead, they 
treat them cruelly while they are 
still living, abusing the seals with 
clubs imtil they cover the winter 
white snow in &amp;esh, red blood. 



Some of the baby seals may even 
be skinned alive, PETA said. Those 
who wear seal fur contribute to 
such horrendous practices. The 
cost of high fashion doesn't need 
to include brutality. 

Online, PETA sells T-shirts 
for the cause that read, "Hug Me, 
Don't Club Me," reminding people 
of the terrible practices utilized 
by brazen hunters. Innocent baby 
seals shouldn't have to be clubbed 
to death and die painfully, just so 
people can wear their fiir coats in 
the winter. It's not cool to wear to a 
coat that condones cruelty. 

The seal himt is undeniably 
malicious, a fact recognized by 
animal officials and doctors. 

"In 2001, a report by an 
independent team of veterinarians 
who studied the hunt concluded 
that governmental regulations 
regarding humane killing were 
neither being respected nor 
enforced, and that the seal hunt 
failed to comply with Canada's 
basic animal welfare standards. 



for advice, help, and a shoulder to cry on. Put this 
on top of the fact that someone you love has just 
passed away... it adds up. People may sometimes 
even believe that you are tmaffected, which can 
also be hard, so just bear in mind that you need 
to find your own outlet and remember that this 
is not a race to see who can cry the most to show 
how much you love the person who has passed. 
You know what is in your heart and when things 
setde down a bit, everyone will be grateful for your 
efforts whether they were intentional or not. 

For the human water foim tains, thewayyoudeal 
with death is healthy. You let out your emotions 
in an uninhibited manner and it helps you deal, 
but just keep in mind that after a certain amount 
of time, society expects you to be able to control 
yourself in public. This amoimt of time, though, is 
left for you to decide. For those that stay in shock, 
it is probably not the best way to deal with deatli; 
it can be hard. It may take years to realize that 
your friend or family member is gone, and when 
you Bnally come to this realization it can be much 
harder to deal with since it has been so long, The 
closure most recieve from attending the funural or 
dealing with some of the other things that must be 
dealt with is sometimes hard to find or even lost, 
making dealing with the absence of a person even 
more clifficult later on. 

Even though everyone has their oivn personality 
and way of dealing with death, Jt is healthy to 
go through the grieving process. After this is 
complete, it might be a good idea to take a short 
amount of time away from your normal schedule; 
going through the stresses of daily college and 
work life are enough to make a person burst into 
teats, lets not add something like this. Do not 
worry about what will be waiting, as long as you 
have the will, you can get things done after a bit 
of time off, and get them done right. While on this 
short vacation, try thinking about the good times 
and the relationship you had with the person. This 
could make you sad, but you are going to have to 
do it sometime. 

Death is not something we can control or alter; 
it is ever present and always waiting. Make the best 
out of your time with the people you love and do 
not hold grudges or bicker over trivial matters. As 
the famous Lebanese poet Khalil Gibran once said, 
"When you are sorroivful look again in your heart, 
and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for 
that which has been your delight. 



Shockingly, the veterinarians foimd 
that in 42 percent of the cases they 
studied, the seals had likely been 
skinned alive while conscious," 
according to The Humane Society 
ofthe United States. 

There is no credible reason why 
there should be a reduction in the 
number of Canadian seals, either 

"In theearly 1980s, theEuropean 
Union banned the import of white 
coaiseal skins, effectively removing 
the principal market for the hum 
at the time. For the next decade, 
the numbers of seals killed in the 
hunt dramatically declined, and 
the harp seal population began to 
recover," The Humanity Society' of 
the United Slates said. 

Overall, the debate should be 
closed: seal hunting is wrong, it 
serves no necessary purpose and 
peopleshouldnotbeso narcissistic 
about their looks that 
baby seals have to be killed s( 
can supposedly look good 
overpriced fur coal. 



iDnnifinMyiiMir/iTHDioDrt 

IDCUI/^AMMIIMirATADinDr. 




News 
featured in 
this paper 
and morey 



April 8, 2009 



arts &amp; entertainment 






The FffrtlSS 




Regena Davis 



. 'This series is about mothers and daughters. I see myself in them and I feel stronger. They've given me life, 

^ traditions (good and bad) and a world full of cousins — ^these women have broadened my horizons. In that 
respect, these women are no different than the women who raised you." 



Holly Dowidat 



'— lilar emotions wiw [SjL 



1 share similar emotions V 




M:,t;,lie McChessney 



Natalie /WcChessr^y^^^^^^..----^^ 

fSres are feminine «'* *^ 'S a wo'"^"- '''''"'"'' ^ ^e me-' '" Peate-'V =""-=' """^ 



Paul Rodriguez 




"Nostalgia is the inspiration behind the core of my new work. The imagery shown is fueled by my intention to blend 
past and present visual fixations. My color choices may be the result of earlier sensations revisited. Ultimately, in my 
work I envision figures absorbed in a surreal environment, informed by my childhood memory of the Southwest." | 



Julie Wall 

"My work is a culminafiot^ 

—--^-- _ ._ ' ''^* occur in every 



Jeffrey R. Krull Gallery 
Senior B.F.A. Exhibition - 



VCD 



April 10-30. 2009 

Award Ceremony ■ Friday. Apr. 10 @ 6:30 p.m. Artists' Reception Immediately Following from ; 

The exhibition can be viewed daily in the Jeffrey R. Krull Gallery at the Allen County Public Lit 



; Fi 

r Projects 




en mel^ 

s.lnthC 



Phmos by LuMs Cane, 




k to the basic ms- 




»ho I am. Personal 
»• occur in every 



ly Following from 7 - 9 p.m. 
n County Public Library. 




A ceramic dog sits on 
the Door of the gallery. 
1 Its body does not imi- 
tate flesh and blood, but 
coral with every sort of 
reef dwelling organism 
sprouting from its hide. 
Even starfish and an oc- 
topus clutch to the sculp- 
ture's body. 

This clay 
named Poseidon and it is 
one of the ceramic dogs 
that the sculptress. Holly 
Doividat, created for her 
senior project. Dowidat 
is in the Bachelor of Fine 
Arts program, majoring in 
ceramics at IPFW and will 
be graduaUng in May. 

The Senior Project is 
a yearlong class thai re- 
quires four critiques, two 
in the fall and two in the 
spring, as well as numer- 
, ous hours of researcli. 
'. Students must delve into 
j an investigation of poten- 
, tial Graduate schools and 
an in-depth examination 
i of their inner-art- 






Dowidat began her proj- 
ect by working with mys- 
tical creatures, but soon 
realized that wasn't the 
path she wanted to pur- 
sue for this project. 

By altering her path, 
she was able to embrace 
her surroundings and use 
her environment to ex- 
press some of her person- 



have been an important 
part of her life. 

Each of her sculptures 
is based on one of the 
dog personalities present 
in her life. She expresses 
those personalities by 
adding different texture 
to the dogs. 

One sculpture, named 
"Terminus", is the image 



ist. 



AB.FA. student's 
senior year is an in- 
■ tegral part of their 
artistic develop- 
ment. "Senior year 
makes students re- — ■■ ■ 
ally figure out what 
they want to do," Chris 
Ganz said, faculty advisor 
for B.FA. Senior Projects. 

"[Doividatl is one ex- 
ample of the evolution," 
said Ganz, referring to 
the changes that a B.Fj\. 
student experiences 

throughout senior year. 



al emotions. "Dogs have of a rabid dog attempt- 
always been a symbol for tng to break the chains 
loyalty and companion- holding it to the ground. 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^= The way that Do- 
widat adds color 
and texture to the 
sculpture brings 
out the animal's 
frustration and 
even shows evi- 
dence of the ani- 
transforming into 



"Dogs have always been 

a symbol for loyalty and 

companionship...." 



ship. They are also con- 
sidered animals diat share 
similar emotions ivith hu- 
mans, and are recognized 
as having distinct person- 
alities," said Doividat. She 
has three dogs herself and 



mal 

something else, because 
of its entrapment. "Ter- 
minus is being bound 
and limited, but trying to 
break free, changing into 
something it's not sup- 



her parents own a pack of posed to be," she said. 
five. Needless to say, dogs Dowidat began col- 



lege, as an art education 
major, hoping to leach 
the artistic process. How- 
ever, her goals changed 
during a workshop in Italy 
in 2007. At die workshop 
she was able to discover 
how dynamic and capti- 
vating the ceramics pro- 
cess is. "One of the most 
challenging and reward- 
ing aspects of working 
with ceramics is the firing 
process," said Dowidat. 
"It doesn't matter how 
long it takes to sculpt a 
piece, or how much pas- 
sion and effort that one 
puts into the work, if the 
sculpture isn't fired just 
right it could crack and all 
the work is lost." 

After graduating she 
wants to take a year off to 
travel to concentrate on 
a larger piece and apply 
to different art shows, as 
well as grad school. One 
school in particular that 
Dowidat is interested in is 
Florida State. 



Wmim^ MOVIE MARATHON 




Friday, April 10 ' Starting at 6 p.m. 
Kettler Studio Theatre 

FREE Admission • Limited Seating ■ Popcorn &amp; Drinks 
For more information, visit remnanttru5t.ipfw.edu. 

Frankenstein 

(1910, Silent - Not Rated - 6 p, 

Frankenstein 

(1931 - Not Rated - 6:20 p.m.) 

Mary Shelley's Frankenstein 

(1994 - Rated R - 8 p.m.) 



IPFW 



Remna nt^Trust 

-""atlSw^ 



Young Frankenstein 

(1974 - Rated PG - 10 p.m.) 




April 8, 2009 



Sports 



pg. 8 







RO 



Former Mastodon Josh Collins discusses 
life as a pro athlete in Italy 



Playing professional 
voUeyball has always 
been a childhood dream 
of mine and I'm glad it 
has finally paned out. 
It has been a long and 
somedmes frustrating 
road to get over here to 
play in Italy and Jn all 
the places to play, Rome 
is where I ended up this 
year. Lucky me! I live and 
play for the city of Osda, 
Rome and am loving 
every second of it. 

There was a bit of 
culture shock when I first 
arrived. They have a high 
seafood and pasta diet, 
and since they areright on 
the Medditerranean Sea, 
everything is fresh. It did 
lake some getting used to 
at first v«ih my stomach. 
Italians are very laid back 
and are slow going in die 
mornings, stopping for 
coffee and to chat with 
friends. So getting things 
done on time tends to be 
a problem. 



Engli^VUngulsU 



The vehicles lend 
to be very compact 
for the tight city streets. 
There are very few SUV's 
and trucks around here 
since they don't seem 
practical for driving. 
Most things for me are 
within walking distance 
or a short train ride away. 
I learned pretty fast that 
stop lights and cross 
walk signs don't mean 
too much here! 

1 proceed with caution 
at all times. 

The food and wine is 
everytliing I expected it 
to be. I've now aquired a 
taste for some nice wine 
ivith my meals. I learned 
the basic Italian pretty 
fast and am now trying to 
put sentences togetherso 
I can have conversations 
instead of a couple word 
answers. I leam the most 
when I'm around the 
players. 

1 came to this team 
midway through the 




Maunday Thursday: 

Apnl9 Noon and 7pm 

Good Friday: 

Apnl ID 7pmTeribiae 

Easter Sunday: 

Apnl 12 7am, 9am, 
and nam 



LvncR 



Holy Cross 
Lutheran Churdi 
3425 CtKcntAve. 
RirtWayne, IN 46805 
260-483-3173 



Josh Collins is a former Mastodon volleyball player and 
Communicator Fitness Columnist. 



season, and 1 have been 
taken care of very well 
with living expenses and 
meals and also a vehicle 
for transportation. I live 
at the Olympic TYaining 
Center with a bunch of 
wresUers, judo and body 
builders training for the 
2012 Olympics. Being 
a 15-minule train ride 
from the Colosseum and 
other sites is a very nice 
perk to the job. 

A typical day for me 
consists of breakfast at 
8 a.m., workout at 9:30 
a.m., then lunch at 12:30 
p.m., then a long break 
in the afternoon before 
dinner at 7:30 p.m., then 
practice from 9-11:30 
p.m.. Many of the players 
are around my age, but 
also have jobs during the 



day or go to school, so I 
have a lot of free time 
during the day to explore 
sites and relax. 

Volleyball is going 
well and we have a strong 
team, but we have been 
cursed ivith injuries 
this season and things 
aren't looking good. I'm 
looking forward lo next 
season where I'll be with 
the leam for the entire 
season, September-May. 

I've been blessed 
to play volleyball in 
Rome and hope to 
continue playing for a 
few more seasons. To all 
athletes, it's an amazing 
experience and a great 
way to see the world 
while continuing to play 
the spori you love. 

Ciao, Josh Collins 



pbfTie Citji Icb | 

Great Jobs With Flexible Hours 

Nnig SUdtMi fV PM nn » or FU rtni Ron Dtfwy 

Flexible Hours i GREAT PAYII 
We offer f(M(H hours/week 

Earn $8.00 to $13.00 per Hour 

800-622-6566 



VrffH^blt Haai tarSblMma Wom Pjrl not lo m Flfl IM Vv SnUn Ma 
FvUnmHaatlitOnSuBam. TUlJUHliiNift£irii«sgFilHatltarIutf««tnA 
'--'UtCiiwiUnacsHIMlfOnfuIffMi lUitaNairou'rn^aiSuwvJeA. 
ilMXr Cirtr.UiBlMKlilluuAnlliMi. 



KsHiaontiitWtijil ttomtcit^eom 



Happy Easter from. 




Moiy»jincSulley 



I K*rtnl&gt;ifUion 1 



Ph/ItalPlsnl.HtlJiid 



Without^ 
altfreetyAalfaw^ 



Jeff Schmidt 
fT Services 


DranneBezduri 






Nancy Lei n bach 
SPEA 


Laurie Alz 
Chi Alpha 


1 




DiannaZook 
Malhematol science) 


Ronald Burkart 
Police arid safety 








Davfd Kiitler 
rr Services 


Laura Reynolds 
, Education 






J 


SobKostrubanic 
n- Services 


JeffAbbon 






"1 


Mark franko 


Janei Paplemik 
Actounling and finance 






Amie Ball 


Tony Foss 


b 




.1 
-i 


1 PalGarvey 
J Educatior, 


BobblShadlfi 








EdMesHl 

MET. ProrciK. tmeimn 


Oer^nlsShadle 
Physics 






Deb Haley 
library 


Sharon Egly 
AUS 



Chocolate bunnies, jelly beans, egg hunts, biunch, that telurtant pon^p and Safely 

tnp to church.. .ii that what Eastei is really all about? Don't mss out 
an the real stoty behind Eastei. Jestis died for our sins and rose from 

the dead. Why? So we could be completely forgiven and know God on ^^u«p^Si™*. 

a penonal leral. He offeis us a new life. One with substance. 

Want to know more? Investigate the true meaning of Eastet for 
yourself. Read the section called "John" in the Bible, and see the Lowene Stipp 

feature article called BEYOND BLIND FAITH at Every Student, com. Medical Education 

EVeryStudent . com TetryCoonan 

^ rrSen-lces 

"Thanks be to God! He gives us the viclory through our Lord Jesus Christ!" (I Corinthians 15:57) 



School of Efiucallon 



April 8, 2009 SpOrtS 



pg. 9 



Joke is on Purdue in April Fools Day slugfest 




Photo by Lucas Carter 



CONNECT: Junior Jason Doerffler connects with a pitch during last 
Wednesday's 22-19 victory over Purdue. The two teams combined for 39 
hits, inciucling nine homeruns. Doerffter had a team high three hits. 

Softball struggles during loaded 
five day, seven game schedule 



By Monica Gerdeman 

nica.gerdemanOlpfwconiniunicatar.a 



Every good thing must come to an 
end, as did the Lady Mastodons four- 
game winning streak, starting with tlie 
Dayton Flyers, Last Tbesday afternoon, 
the wind swept away all hope as the 
Flyers swooped in for a double kill, 7-5 
and 6-4. 

Resuming play on Wednesday , the 
magic eight ball once again read "not 
today," as the 'Dons fell prey to the 
Eagles of Eastern Michigan in a double 
header, scoring only one run in the first 
game and two in the second leaving the 
final scores at2-l and 10-2. 

Friday April 3. The Mastodons 
proved that all bad things come to 
an end by challenging the UMKC 
Kangaroos to a duel. The game was 
about to venture into extra innings 
when sophomore Sarah Swanson sent 
the sphere packing deep into right field 
scoring freshman Heather Genovese. 

"It was a lot of pressure but I just 
forgot about the situation and thought 
about hitting the ball. I was so happy 
that our team hnaily came together in 
the last inning to win," Swanson said. 

On Saturday, the piercing sun 
tried to break the chill of the wind as 
the 'Roos and 'Dons both met back at 
the diamond. The first Inning ended 
with an even 0-0. In the second, with 
two outs and no hits or runs, UMKCs' 
Ashley Whiteside smacked a Rachel 
Staschuk toss to left field. The hit wasn't 
counted because of left fielder Jil Price 
and her diving catch lo finish the top 




Photo by Monica Gerdeman 



SWING: Cassie Wolfe hits a foul 
ball in the opener of the double 
header with Eastern Michigan. 

of the inning. The real action didn't 
happen until the bottom of the fourth 
when IPFW made it across home txvice 
with two hits. Bui the lead wasn't theirs 
for long when UMKC finished inning 
number five with four runs off two hits 
as the game finished 4-2. 

Game two on Saturday wasn't much 
brighter for the Lady Mastodons. IPFW 
started strong scoring a run in the 
first, bui wouldn't score again until 
the bottom of the fifth when shortstop 
Cassie Wolfe slammed one over the 
fence. Wolfe now has four homeruns 
on tlie season. 

IPFW fell 5-2 in the series finale. 



In All Directions 

By Dan Vance 

vance-iad. blogspot.com 

Wlienever the athletic department 
has to start a release on their website 
with the phrase "notan April Foolsjoke," 
something pretty odd just occurred. 

That was the case last Wednesday 
when the Mastodons oulslugged (and 
just outlasted) visiting Purdue, 22-19. 
The game featured tivo grand slams, 
seven more homeruns and four more 
RBI from Mastodon Garrett Seagraves 
than IPFW had total in their previous 
two games with Purdue this season. 
Needless to say, this was no ordinary 
game. 

Knoiving that IPFW had defeated 
Purdue 1 -0 in their first meeting, I never 
expected this game to be high scoring, 
even after seeing the massive size of 
Purdue players like 6'4 ", 240 pound 
Dan Black. IPFW pitchers losh Shano, 
Scott Micinski and Andrew Emge had 
to supersize their strike zones just to 
throw a strike against guys that could 
make some major leaguers look small 
in comparison. 

I don't think that 1 have ever seen a 
college baseball team that enormous 
and I'm still pretty sure they may 
have been a New York Yankees' minor 
league club or at least clients of Brian 
McNamee. 

Before the season, first year head 
coach Bobby Pierce raved about the 



team's new hitting philosophy. Senior 
pitcher Brandon Knowling said that 
the difference in liitting success based 
on the technique were noticeable even 
before thefirstregularseasonswing was 
ever made. And while the Mastodons 
have had some high scoring affairs 
already, this game really showed what 
the hitting changes can bring. 

Seagraves, lason Doerffler and 
Jordan Kohler each had three hits for 
IPFW in the win. TWo of Rower's hits 
didn't even stay in the park in what is 
currently an unrivaled show of power 
out ofthe junior Junior College transfer. 
That power led lo IPFW getting the last 
laugh over a Purdue team that, let's 
face it, never wants lo lose to a school 
that is a regional campus of their own 
imiversity. 

The best pan is that IPFW did 
so with poise under pressure. WhLe 
Purdue went deep into their (what 
looked like) "roided-up" cabinet of 
pitchers, IPFW stayed strong with the 
previously mentioned three pitchers. 
Even while they were giving up four, 
seven and eight runs each. Pierce stuck 
with his pitchers, showing that he has 
great confidence in their ability to play 
with crazy amounts of pressiu^e. 

Thaiand it made Purdue'scoach and 
team look like punks by comparison. 

IPFW's usual suspect on the 
offensive end, Chris Gottschall, had just 
one RBI on two hits, Kohler followed 
Sea^ves with four RBI. 



IPFW 

^gr Campu^ 

9 2009 Diversity Showcase: WU 
Ballroom, 10:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m. Call 
16608. 

Athletic Event: Men's Tennis vs. 
Western Illinois, Kachmann Tennis 
Center, 1 p.m. Call 10729. 
Express Lane Drop-In Career 
Counseling: KT 109, noon-2 p.m. 
Call 106S9. 1 

University Relglous Forum: The 
Role ol Christian Music on the Mission 
Field,' Nancy Honeytree, speaker WU 
G21, noon-1:15 p.m. Complimentary 
lunch; call 16992. 

Study Abroad Intomiatlon Session: 
KT 245, 4-5 p.m.. Call 16494. 1 

10 Classes Suspended at 4:30 p.m. 
Athletic Events: Men's Tennis vs. 
Oral Roberts. 9 a.m.; vs. Centenary, 
2 p.m, Kachmann Tennis Center, 
Baseball vs. Southern Utah, Maslodon 
Baseball Field, 3 p.m. Call 10729, 
Remnant Trust at IPFW Event: i 
Fmnkenslein Movie Maralhon / Roci&lt;y 
Honor Pictuw Show, KT Studio 
Theatre, 6 p.m.-2 a,m. Free 
admission, popcorn, and sodas. 
Spring Senior VCD B,F.A. 
Exhibition and Artists' Reception: 
Alien County Public Library, 200 E, .|i 
Beny, 7-9 p.m.; exhibilion continues 
through April 30. 

Concert: Jazz Ensemble, RC, 
7:30p.m.Call-16555. 

1 1 Lunch with an IPFW Scientist at 
Science Central: 'Allemative Energy 
and Your Home,' 0.J, Marshall, 
assistant professor of archileclurai 
engineering; 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m. For 
reservations, call 260-424-2400, ext, 
451. 



April 9-15, 2009 

Athletic Events: Baseball vs. 

Southern Utah, Mastodon Baseball 

Field, noon (double header). Men's 

Tennis vs. lUPUi, Kachmann Tennis 

Center, f p.m. Men's Voileybali vs. 

Ball Slate, GC, 7 p.m. Call 10729. 

Faculty Recital: Hamilton Tescarollo, 

piano; RC, 7:30 p.m. Call 16555. 

Athletic Evenl: Baseball vs. Southem 

Utah, Mastodon Baseball Field, 1 p.m. 

Call 10729, 

Remnant Trust al IPFW CATV 

Series: 'Science, Culture, and 

Society," CATV5, Verizon 30, or 

Comcast 5, 5:30 p,m. 

Classes Resume 

Spanish Table: WU Fireside Lounge, 

noon. Contact conlortmeipfw,edu. 

Free Fitness Screenings: GC, 4:45- 

6:45 p.m. Can 6647. 

Concert: Faculty Jazz Combo, RC, 

7:30 p.m. Call 16555, 

Athletics Events: Men's Tennis vs. 

UlC, Kachmann Tennis Center, 3 p.m. 

Baseball vs. Valparaiso, Maslodon 

Baseball Field, 3 p.m. Call 10729, 

Student Lffe Workshop: Leadership 

102, WU 114-116, noon-1 p.m. Call 

16263. 

Study Abroad Informalfon Session: 

KT 128, noon-1 p.m. Call 16494. 

Express Lane Drop-In Career 

Counseling: KT 109, 11 a,m.-1 p,m. 

Call 10689, 

Anthropology Club Luncheon 

Lecture: John Verano; KT G46, noon. 

Free pizza for students. Si (or faculty/ 

staftAfisitors, Cain 6272, 

Athletic Events: Women's Tennis vs, 

Valparaiso, Kachmann Tennis Center, 

3 p.m. Baseball vs, Daylor), Mastodon 

Baseball Field, 3 p,m. Call 10729, 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



April 8, 2009 



Sports 



pg.10 











Finding comfort leads 
to professional dream 



Story By Dan Vance 

dan.vance@ipfwcommunicator,org 



"By the lime I left, I was so comfortable and so ivith one last option ifhe wanted to play professional 

excited about being here that it helped me grow as a basketball right away - the NBA Developmental 
person and opened me up to a new flow of life than League's Fort Wayne Mad Anls. The only way to g 



Chicago." 

The DeWitt Scott that makes that comment today 
doesn't believe he would have ever made it in 2003. 
The place that once scared Scott quickly became his 
home as his time progressed m an IPFW uniform. 
The summer after his first season with IPFW, things 
got even better as it was announced tlial in one year 
IPFW would become a member of the Mid-Continent 
conference in time for his 2007-2008 senior season. 
Thai left Scott excited, but partially upset as he played 
out his junior season, hitting a career best 73 three- 
point shots. 

The sadness came from the fact that two of his 
closest friends on the team, seniors Justin Hawkins 
and Quintin Carouthers. 



would never gel to see 
the conference affiliation 
that they had worked so 
hard for. Other than Scott, 
the two were the only 
players remaining from 
Doug Noll's time coaching 
IPFW. 

"It was because of 
those two guys that we 
were able to make it to a 
conference," Scott notes. 

But he still played strong 
in his junior season, giving 
IPFW a then-Division I ivin 
record with 12, including 
a 5-2 mark against future 
conference opponents. 

Those five wins were 
highlighted by a five overtime slugfest 
Western Illinois. 



The Five-Seasom Journey 

year team g pts. 3pm/a reb 



03-04 UMES 


22 


54 


1-10 


31 


05-06 IPFW 


28 


397 


70-158 


102 


06-07 IPFW 


29 


322 


73-165 


74 


07-08 IPFW 


30 


312 


67-165 


77 


08-09 MadAnts 


47 


371 


83-221 


111 













"From the moment the last 

buzzer hit in the conferenci 

tournament it was alwaysj 

pro basltetball. 



their attention- participate in a near 90-man open 
tiyout where only one player would be invited to the 
roughly 25-man training camp for a roster that would 
be trimmed to 10. 

"The odds are not in your favor. You're looking at 
the situation as you are getting ready to start it and 
it's an uphill batde to say the least," Scott says. 

Scott went on to participate in the open tryouts, 
using the motivation that his former Whitney Young 
teammate Ron Howard went through the same 
process a year earlier to earn a spot on the Mad Ants' 
roster. After being the last man standing through the 
general process, Scott was invited to training camp. 
Day by day, practice would start at 11 a.m. with the 
coaches would make early 
morning calls at 9 a.m. 
to make cuts. Reaching 
the final day of cuts, Scott 
was optimistic, yet still 
lacked confidence about 
his chances to make the 
lineup as he woke up for 
what would be the first day 
of team practice. 

"9:30 came and I didn't 
get a call. Eleven came and 
1 still kind of went to practice 
like 'hopefully they didn't 
make a mistake,' When 1 got 
there and saw that i was on the 
team, I was overwhelmed- it 
was very imdescribable." 

His addition to the Mad 
Ants team also led to a 



if' 



over reunion of sorts ^viih the man he partially credits his 
success to: former IPFW coach Doug Noll, who joined 
As the team continued to improve, Scott saw his the Mad Ants staff early in 2008 and left the team 
overall role reduced, but always the team player, midway through the current season. 



Scott didn't seem to mind the reduction that saw him 
start otdy half the games and score three points less 
per contest. 

"1 didn't do as well from a scoring standpoint or 
from a shooting standpoint. But, we were a belter 
team and that's a trade I'm willing to have at any 
time," he says. 

Seemingly quicker than the rest, the transition 



We'd talk about it. You know, we're reunited 
but I never played a game for him, so how much of a 
reunion is it?" Scott says with a big laugh. "I was just 
glad that I was actually able to play a game with Doug 
Noll on the bench." 

His first season has been one of ups and downs, 
much like every other point of his professional career. 
He scored a career high 30 points in a December 30 



season came and went without much noise. In his game w\\h the Colorado 14ers and has been ranked 

senior season, Scott and a senior laden team again as high as second in the NBDL in three pointers made 

setaDl record forwins and went on to beatSouthern (he currenUy ranks nindi). However, his production 

Utah in the opening round of the Summit League and even playing time has shrunk towards the end of 

(former-Mid Continent Conference) tournament, the season, leaving Scott at a point of unknown as to 

Scott marks that win as his favorite moment what his next step is. 
throughout his college career. "Every basketball player goes through a lot in 



MIDDLE: Scott scrambles with Sioux Falls' 
David Bailey for a loose ball 



Like all things, Scott's time at IPFW came to an 
end, but never once did he waiver what was next on 
Photos by Lucas Carter his agenda. 

"From the moment the last buzzer hit in the 
conference tournament, it was always pro basketball," 
Scott pointedly announces. 



order to reach a high level. But to go what I have been 
through and to be right here, it's a blessing that I 
couldn't describe in words." 

Through all his trials, tribulations and uprisings, 
Scott has shown that he is not that stereotypical 
athlete at all. Instead, he is just the same person he 



BOTTOM: High school teammates Ron Howard 
and DeWitt Scott block out a Utah Flash player. 



Unfonunatly Scott's agent, who he met at the described himselfas being in high school. 
Summit League lournament, was unable to nail "A goofy basketball player," Scott grins. "That 

down a contract with a European squad, leaving Scott loves to smile." 



April 8* 2009 SpOlTtlS pg. 1 1 

Five years in the mal&lt;ing, Morici to malce final home appearance 



Senior led IPFW to 2006 Final Four, will be honored alongside Dos Santos and Berg 



By Dan Vance 

dan.vanceOipfwto 



This Saturday, a trio of 
IPFW volleyball players will 
play their final home match 
in the Gates Center as the 
Mastodons take on Ball 
State for Senior Night. 

Leading that group is 
fifth yearsenior Mike Morici, 
who led IPFW to a Final Four 
in 2006 and has recently 
relumed to a starting libero 
role that an injury took him 
away from in 2007, when 
junior Man Pliske took over 
the starting role. 

"That whole process was 
a lot of work," Morici said. 
"Just playing against Pliske 
is competition in itself. 
He's very consistent so that 
makes me have to push 
myself harder." 

Morici is also looking to 
pass on his knowledge for 
the defensive position to the 



younger players, including 

three redshirt liberos. 

'T want to see these guys 
finally come together and 
click so they can be better 
in the coming years," Morici 
said. 

Morici sits at 563 career 
digs, currently 10th ail-time 
at IPFW. 

Joining Morici in being 
honored on Senior Night 
are Marcus Dos Santos and 
junior Nathaniel Berg. 

Dos Santos has been 
used as a service specialist 
in his only Mastodon season 
after transferring from the 
now- defunct Mercy hurst 
program. 

Berg, who still has one 
year of playing eligibility 
remaining, will graduate 
in the spring and leave the 
program. In the last decade, 
Berg is one of only two Fort 
Wayne natives to play for the 
mens volleyball program. 
In his final year, Berg has 



played substantially more 
minutes than ever before, 
often starting as a middle 
hitter. He is currently second 
on the team in blocks ivith 
74. 




Photos by Lucas Carter (L and 

FINAL MATCH: Seniors Mike Morici (right) 
antJ Marcus Dos Satitos (middle) and junior 
Nathaniel Berg (left in left photo) will all play 
their final home matches this Saturday. 




Quincy holds their own, still 
fall twice to humbled 'Dons 



By Monica Gerdeman 

inica.gerdemanQipfwcQmmuniuIar.org 



Saturday afternoon, the Quincy 
Hawks were able to keep up with 
the speed of things as the match's 
first fourgames were even with two 
a piece, 30-25, 19-30, 30-17 and 
24-30. AUowring the final match to 
decideitallthe 

toss-up win -gca^ " 
went to the — IcaPeJS. 
Mastodons, Kiils:Sharik 
^5.j^ Blodts;Kook-95 

"A win Asiirts: Madei ■ 606 

I Digs: Dudworth- 147 

IS a Win. I ^j.^. puj^^orth - 48 

especially m 

conference, but we should have 
done itinthreegames as compared 
to five," commented freshman and 
outside hitler J) Meyer. 

The first game belonged to 
IPFW 30-25, but the second game 
was not what the 'Dons asked 
for at all. The entire game never 
favored the blue and white. Finally 
after a short break between games, 
IPFW came out with a new line up 
and a fired-up game plan. 

"I feel that our team didn't take 
Quincy seriously enough, however 
I feel that when coach switched up 
the lineup that it brought a good 
enery to the court," Meyer said. 

The new faces included Ivan 
Matos, Eric Hardek, Meyer and a 
libero change with Mike Morici 
replacing Matt Pliske. 

"Well I think it's important for 
our young kids to come in and play 
in game three and play real hard 
and batde in game four because 
I think it helps with our team's 
depth. I think surely that group of 
youth was part of winning game 
three. They have a lot of energy 
because they are a bunch of young 




Tennis captures regular 
season conference crown 

In day t\vo of the Summit League cluster in 
Kansas City, Missouri, the IPFW women's tennis 
team won three matches on Saturday and improved 
to 8-0 in conference play by defeating South Dakota 
State 5-0, Western Illinois 4-0 and lUPUI 6-0. 

The victories were the ninth, tenth and eleventh 
in a row for the Mastodons, who clinched the 
regiJar season Summit League title, and head into 
the conference tournament on April 24 in Fort 
Wayne, as the league's top seed. 

IPFW was led by sophomore Amy Recht (22- 
2, 7-0), who picked up three singles wins and two 
doubles wins on Satiuday, including a big win in 
doubles with partner Sachi lanek against Western 
Illinois. 

Next up for the Mastodons is a non-conference 
home match against Valparaiso on April 14. 



t^ ikmmnyumfi 



Photo by Monica Gerdeman 

OUT: Freshman Ivan Matos yells out to his team as a Quincy 
shot sails wide in Saturday s match. Matos came off the bench 
to score six kills and dig up three balls in the win. 




guys that don't get a chance to 
play very much, so when they get 
a chance to come in you see a lot 
of determinadon, and 1 think that 
really helps us," head coach Arnie 
Ball said. 

Meyer ended the day third on 
the team in digs (8) and kills (7). 

"]J Meyer is very important to 
fhis team even if he doesn't get to 
play a lot or he plays a lot like he 
played quite a bit tonight. He's so 
versatile and he does a lot to help 
this team," Ball said. 

"I feel that 1 helped in bringing 
energy and a positive attitude to 
the court on Saturday," Meyer 
said. 



The fourth game was as scary 
as the second, and the fifth game 
wasn't much better. As the crowd 
sat and consistendy bit their nails, 
the 'Dons fell behind by as much 
as three until the score of the final 
set was 11-10 when they took their 
first lead. New life emerged on the 
faces of the Mastodons and they 
never looked back, finishing 15-11 
on a Ben Duckworth kill. 

The previous night the 
Mastodons gave only three strikes 
to quincy ending the night quick 
(31-29, 31-29, 30-25). All three 
games were close as the Hawks 
put up a fight but the 'Dons put 
their foot doivn and stomped their 
way through. 



Dan Vance 

tVlanaging Editor 

ill Price 
Copy Editor 



Kathryn Anderson 
Politics &amp; Money 



Lucas Carter 
Photography 

Editor 

Kristin Con ley 
Ad Manager 



contKlSiplwtonvnunlcatoroig 







April 8, 2009 



Sports 



pg. 12 



German hitter developing leadership role 



H 

J E By Dan Vance 

dan.vanceeiptwcommunita 



A Junior Oliver Kook bringing experience to the table 
IPi during the most critical stretch of IPFW's season 



With jusl two seniors leaving the fold 
at year's end, men's volleyball coach 
Arnie BaU is looking far and wide viithin 
his program to find the next leader for a 
young but talented program. 

He may have to look no furthur than 
his leading blocker Oliver Kook. 

"The one guy that, in the last three 
weeks, has really shovm some positive 
direction in that regard is Oli," Ball said 
during last Wednesday's media lunch. 

The Hamburg, Germany native is 
in his second year with the Mastodon 
program and has stepped up big time 
lately, not only on defense (where he is 
always heavily relied on], but also as a 
strong option on the offensive end. 

"It's kind of hard for me as a middle 
hitter to take the game under control 
when I only can get set 10 to 15, maybe 
20 times in an entire match," Kook 
noted. 



On the defensive end of things, 
where Kook is more relied on, he has 
been strong more often than not. 
He leads the team in blocks with 95, 
including 10 solo efforts. He is second 
in the MFVA in total blocks behind Ball 
State's J.D. Gasparovic and is ranked 
15th nationally in blocks per game. 

"We work on blocking a lot still in 
practice ai this point in the season. It's 
really important for us to set up a good 
block," Kook said. 

Though just a sophomore in class 
standing and junior in eligibility, Kook 
(just days shy of his 24th birthday) 
is the second eldest member of the 
team, allowing him to bring a certain 
unrivaled experience and knowledge. 

"Vocally of course, I can be a leader 
and 1 can try to help other people 
perform bener," Kook said. 

Right now, Kook is the only solidified 
middle hiner as junior Nathaniel Berg 
and freshman Chris Brigson have been 
splitting time next to Kook. Next year, 
IPFWwili add Rob Samp fromWheaton 



#iHli#it 9 




Photo by Lucas Carter / lucaicarteiphotography.com 



MIDDLE HITTER; Kook ptjts down one of his then-career high 12 kills vs. 
Howeverastheregularseasonwinds Warrenville South HS (Illinois), the George Mason on March 28. Kook hit a new career mark with 14 kills in 
._ ,^_-i, — .„j I.;. 1 — . . — ,„i — 1 .1,.,. „,«h„™h »v»^v,rv,=^ Friday's match with Quincy, where he also had a career high four aces. 



do^vn, Kook posted his best career 
indiviudal offensive numbers in back- 
to-back matches with George Mason 
and Quincy, Against the Patriots, he 
had 12 kills, a high he erased six days 
later with 14 kills and four aces in a 3-0 
win over MIVA foe Quincy. 



same school that produced freshman 
Eric Hardek. 

The team will now be on the road 
for three of their final four matches, all 
against MIVA teams Ohio State, Loyola- 
Chicago and Lewis. Saturday, the team 
will host Ball State in the final home 



match of the season. 

"This is the most important point 
in the season - this is crunch time 
right now," Kook said. "We really 
have to step it up and work some 



consistency mto our game. 

After a strong start in 2009, the 
Mastodons lost 5-of-6 before i,niming 
both conference matches last weekend 
against Quincy. 



(260) 490-5060 




6040 Lima Rd. Ft. Wayne, IN 46818 



The New 
Generation 
of Country! 

1 The Bar for 
all Generations! 



Wednesdavs! 



Karaoke 

$1.00 Longnecks 
$3.00 You Call it! 
$1.00 Food 
$1.00 Cover 
$2.50 ALL Bombs 




Fridavs! Saturdays! 



LADIES SET 
IN FREE 

Get in FREE 
w/ Q student ID 



$2.50 X BOMBS 

6 shots just 
$1.50 each 

Great Live Bands 



ALL Bombs $2.50 



iNeon Armadillo jConcert Series 



Eric Church 
IVlay 2nd 



f9Isfl9^' 



Steve Azar 
May f'"' 



Adam Gregory Jamey John son 
June 6th July 18tt 




