WEDNESDAY, 
September 5, 2001 





Right' rous^ readers, p 2 


B}&lt;^bycB(.i&lt;!lJi.p.3 


Articles by Tedets and 


-Jay and Siknt BoB," p- 41 


INSIDE: 


OPINIONS 


HIGHIIGHTS 


Sports 

Spieth. p. 5 


Features ► ^ 



^j COMMUNICATO 

'■'^er.Vf^* hidiana University — - Purdue llniversihi Fort Waxme 




VoliiniL' 3b, Issue 3 





News Briefs 

Comedian Carrot Top 
to visit Fort Wayne 

Comedian Scoll Thompson, aka Carrol Top, 
will bring his pcccnlric, ^g-li\]e&lt;i comedy rou- 
tine lo Ihc Embassy Thca'~ 
lor a Scpl. 7 performance. 

The Communicalor 
will have a front page J 
inlervicw and fcalurc on 
Ihe comedian in Ihc Sept 
12 issue. 

Tickels an; 524-53^ ioi 
Ihe show, which begins 
a1 8 p.m. Carrol Top will 
also be performing in 
IndianapolLs on Scpl, 12. 

Omct licketmaster com for more infoimatio; 



Menopause seminar 
features national experts 

Nationally recognized husband and wife 
menopause eipcrls Di Joseph Mayo, OB/GVN, 
and his wife Mary Ann, M.A. MFCC. will preseni 
Ihe IPFW/Parkview Hospital 

Palhways lecture, "A safe path t 
(or a natural change: midlife I 
issues before, during and aflei E 
menopause," on Thursday. 

The free lecture begins al 
p.m. in the Walb Uni. 

Dr. Mayo and his ivife have I 
appeared on numerous Tho Mayos 
national radio and television 
programs, including Ihe Oprah Winfrey Show. 
The couple have co-authoied two books: "The 
Menopause Monacer; A Safe and Natural 
Change." and The Sexual Woman." 

Alimini Association seeks 
student representative 

The nj Alumni Association is looking to fill a 
sludcnt re prescnl alive scat al IPRV, 

The Student Represent alive is responsible far 
traveling lo Bloommglon or Indianapolis iv'™ -■ 
year, in December and )une, with ^^ 
IPFW Alumni Relations Dircclo 
Jennifer Bosk, 

During Ihe visits lo Bloomingtor 
and Indianapolis, Ihe rpprcscnlativi 
sits in on the lU Alumni Associatioi 
Executive Board meetings and Ihi 
Sludent Alumni commillec. 

All expenses (including lodging, I 
meals, occasional football o" ■---' ■ 
ball game tickets and lU ( 
included. 

Studenls interested in applying for I 
the posilion must be a junior pursu- 
ing an iU degree al IPFW. 

They also must be familiar with the c 
and the differences between a commuter campus 
and a Iradilional campus. 

Addilionally. applicants must be scixsitive to 
non- Iradilional students' needs and wants. 

Bosk asks applicants to email Ihc (ollowmg 
information to her name, class year, degree 
being pursued, nameof the professor wilh whom 
Ihe sludent is mosl familiar, activities outside of 
class (on and off campus) and availability to trav- 
el to Thursday/ Friday /Saturday event for 
December and June sessions. 

The December session this year is Dec. 7 and 8 

Interested students may contact Bosk via 
email al boskjGipf^v.cdu 

Weather 

■ Tod^y 
Sunny 
High; 79 
Low: 63 



ThuTsday 

High: 77 
Low: 48 



Mostly cloudy 
High: 77 
Uw: 55 

Index 

Opinions *. 2 

Highlights 3 

Features .4 

Sporls 5 

Campus/Region 6 



Homecoming to debut on campus 



By Mishanna Wood, Chief Reporter 

Athletic Director Mark Pope is challenging the 
•nlire campus community to partake in IPFW's 
premiere homecoming, which will symbolize Ihe 
tieginning of Division I competition, when the 
men's basketball team competes against 
Moorehead Slate at 7:30 p.m. on Nov, 16 at the 
Memorial Coliseum, 

IPFW's homecoming includes a bonfire, tail- 
gale party, pep rally, a possible homccommg court 
and a free performance by "Generations," 

"We've partnered with the Alumni Association, 
Student Covenunenl and Sludent Activities Board 
to create an event that will be a lol of fun for 
everyone," Pope said. 

According lo Brian Miller, vice president of 
programming, additional events may lake pLicc. 



"Tlie process Ls ongouig and we're iimshmg the 
initial stages," Miller said. 

The entrance fees for the game will vary 
depending on the location of scats and sludent 
status. Admission for Ihe fust 2.000 students is 
free, according to Miller. 

These tickets are available al Ihe Gates Sports 
Center with student ID. Student and general 
admission seats are located at Ihe end of the 
Coliseum from the rafters to the ball court. Tlierc 
IS a S5 fee for all non-studenls, 

"Let's fill this one." Pope said. "Get there early 
and gel Ihe best seats, ciice we fill this section, 
we'll open up the curtain and fill the other seclion. 
Let's prove this community wrong and show that 
students will be there and we can fill it " 

See Hornec^ining, p. 6 





Pfiofos by Denniez Zhie. Photo Editor 



X-Treme Air 

The Student Aclivilies Board brought the X-Trcme machine to campus on 
Wednesday, Aug. 29. Students lined up in droves lo experience the free fall and 
flying effect produced by massive fans used to lift patrons. The free event was 
the first in a number of amusemenls SAB will host this year. 



Homecoming events arc scheduled [or Nov. 
16. Tho bonfire will be located north of the 
Visual Arts Building. 

RAD classes 
begin Sept. 10 

By Dawn Early. Features Ldilor 

FBI statistics indicate that one rape occurs 
every seven minutes in the United States. This is 
just one reason (eff Oavis, an IPFW police officer, 
feels Ihal Ihe Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) 
coutse is an asset to our campus. 

One of RAD's instructional objectives is "to 
develop and enhance the options of self-dcfcnsc, 
sii ihei rii.i\ bi.'ciimc viable considerations to the 
v.i-m.m ■.■,l'i I-. allacked." The program teaches 
fLMh-iii -M .li'lrnse techniques lo women, as 
vvi'H .l^ i&gt;ni|'li.i-.i,'inc Ihe importance 



Liii.'nie IS avoiding the situation in the tirsl place, 
■Xccording lo Amy Wilson, anolher certified 
R ..\D instructor. Ihe main goal of the program is lo 
I'mpgwer Women. RAD is a program tnal raises 
jwareness in women, leaches Ihem how lo avoid 
ijt.ky situations and gives Ihem Ihe skilb Ihey 
ntfd to iiclit back when necessary. 

Everybody is vulnerable al some lime or 
anolher; il can happen," Wilson said. According 
lo FBI statistics, over 90,000 rapes occur each year 
and an estimated 90 percent of rapes fail to lie 
reported. 

Davis and Wilson said Ihey are grateful to stu- 
dent government because Ihey financially sup- 
ported implementation of the program. The 
course isollered free of charge to female students, 
sl.iff. faculty and .ilumni. a " " *" 
.„ui children. 

The FBI also reports Ihj 
.i.iv be sexually assaulled 
el)' 75 percent of 



'ell as their spouses 
n Ihtc 



their lifetime and 
ipes ate commit led 

., _. acquaintance. According lo Davis. Ihesesla- 
tuticsshow that rape is an epidemic and needs to 
be addressed. 

"If someone wants lo argue that this is not an 
epidemic. 1 have Ihe proof,' Davis said. 

RAD. which was created by a retired police 
officer in 198^ is currently being taught at o' " 
4{X) colleges and universities "■&gt;■"-"-;■'" n ' - 



rvide. lU and 



See RAD, p. 6 



Enrollment reaches 7-year high 

Higher educational standards, comfort level seen as contributing factors to increase 

IPFW by the numbers 



By Mishanna Wood, Chief Reporter 

EhTOllmenl has increased to 11.129 studenls. 
the tiighcsl number in seven years. 

"We've had more students, the peak was in the 
fall of 1992. but we have this year a recond number 
of course enrollment or cteait hours ivhich, in a 
way, mearu there are more studenls sitting in 
classnjoms lor more hours than ever before. It cor- 
relates with enrollment going up in general," said 
Jack Dahl, associate vice chancellor for institution- 
al research and planning. 

"We've been ivoiking really hard to remove all 
the barriers to education lo students which have 
nothing lo do with education. OASIS, better pro- 
gramming and no lines in the cafeteria are some 
examples of those services. 

"While I can't say for certain those things 
caused the enrallmcnt increase. I hope Ihey help 
make students rnorc comfortable here and make 
the university more attractive," said Chancellor 
Michael VhtXeW. 

Studenls are eruDlted in a recent 107,751 credit 
hours, an increase of eight percent over last year. 
Thirty-one percent of the students are from sur- 
rounding counties, 

'Sludents have access loan eicellent education 
here. 1 hope that knowledge has increased enroll- 
ment too. We are in record territory in lerms of 
credit hour enrollment. 

"When you increase enrollment this much it 
lakes a lot of people ivorking together to make the 
transition so smooth. A ercal deal of credit goes to 
the fjcully and staff." \Vartpll said. 



n enrollment." Dahl 



The African American population has 
increased 12.7 percent, the Hispanic population is 
up 1.7 percent, American Indian enrollment Is up 
19.4 percent. Asian /Pacific Islander enrollment 
went down 26.4 percent and other classifications 
were up 80.9 percent. 

"We consider African Americans and 
Hispanics to be underreprcsenled minorilies and 
so obviously, we're pleased to have increases in 
both categories. This is very sensitive to the laws 
of small numbers. The campus does represent its 
service area, which is a nine county area. In terms 
of the composition of the populatio ' ■-&lt;--'- 
significant overall r — - — ' 

There is not a single factor, but rather several 
factors that can be allribuled lo the increase in 
enrollmenl. according to Dahl, 

"Recent high school graduates are choosing 
IPFW. We did add a number of classes lo accom- 
modate shjdcnt demand. One of the benefits of 
the registration process for fall is Ihat It starts in 

"As registration comes (closer), we do have the 
opportunity' to respond to the numtiers. We also 
were seeing signs of increase in new student 
admissionsTorftll, which is a signal that Ihe num- 
ber of students would increase and that we would 
need to be prepared for courses that new students 
usually take. We're very pleased about Ihe 
increase. It docs reflect, I believe, intentional 
I and recnijting efforts,"Dah! said. 



12,000 


ai ,„.. , 1 


















ES 10,000 
















O 8.000 


■ ■■ 














O G.000 


■ ■■: 






E 


I HI 








1 HHr., 














D 


I lUi 




Wi 1934 1994 3000 2001 




Year 





Graph by Todd Hamm, News Editor 

IPFW's student enrollment peaked in 
1992 .with 12,090 students. After the 
early 1990s^ enrollments dipped. 
Enrollments in the last few years, how- 
ever, have steadily risen. 



Page 2, The Communicator 



Opinions 



Letters to the editor 



f Our tdilorial poiicy llotaltd a( I, 
J with your maiUnif addita. plwnt 
I niivr Iv publiflifd All iuhmimoi 



!!■ Edilor 



■ botlom of Ihis pagel requir. 
lumbt-r. t/flSi ^landing or lit 

■ pu email will Ik rcnfied oi 

To the- edilor 



i thjil all Ittltn lo Iht fdilor b 
■ and TTiafOr Address and plwi 
T the plione or in ptnon prior 



I mrfnily picked un j copy oi Ihc l3i«i 
I iirnmunicilor lo sec whal litn'r.il happenings 

1-. irc (xcumng on campus when [ was surprised' ' J issue of The Communicalor 
tip rc.id .1 ciilical Ittler regarding Ihe new, _■ -^ Should some "really 

Mjfi.iKingEdiloi.ll would seem from last week's).* ^Ihal Nalhan Diehl is avaiiaoie ana aecide lo 
a the Editor' thai he is already a contro-|(-.- "hook up" with him, despite his promise lo 
e and the semester is less than a ^l^l'ncver proclaim that [ am straight in a public 



Voices on Campus 

The Communicator asked students on campus, 
"What do you think about IPFW having a homecoming 
this year?" 

Here are some of their responses: 



lady" gather 



month old. Con gralu la lions Nathan Dichl c 



mg a figure 



;sily. i 



ii 



Jffi- 



liberal campus, t am amazed I 
no i.'rd. I might actually read the paper agam. 

All loo oJten. voices like that of our cmbi 
kiL'd Z.ichary Randal! ovenvhelm us 
■.Mil confused about why Mr Randall is so upset, 
lie says "ALL college students should strive for 
a wnse of diversity and opcn'mindcdness," 1, 
kvould assume thai having a conservative edilor 
jl the student paper would be thai sort of diver- 
Mlv he wanted. I believe (hat Mr, Randall needs 
((' spend more lime opening his mind arid less, 
iimc opening his mouth. A wull with the liberal 
mindset, like Mr. Randall's, is thai they wanl' 
everyone lo agree wilh Ihem, I am sorry, Mr 
Randall, it is that sort of thinking Ihal keeps col- 
k-gc sludenls frorn Ihinking for themselves. 1/ l| 
uic Mr. Randall's thinking I could not disagree;' ' 
with or question whal I am lold on the niglitlyj^ .(. 



I hope the hook-up docs 

'tbasis of his logic. Diehl's editorial 



if/ers ii 
:^Owhat historian David Haekell Fischer calls thi 
IfM) li lac k-or- white fallacy' 

¥iB ., IPFW does not have lo choose between th, 
meaningless distinction of being a "cool sthool 
or a Tpy school." IPFW is a i 
plans lor dorms, sports and yes, diversil 
viewpoints. To define IPFW on Ihe basis of 
controversial play seems jusi as wrong-headi 
defining IPFW as a gay-bashing school or 
basis ofonc poorly reasoned student cdilorial. 



labeling myself 
Which I won't need to do, you liberals reading' 
ihis will do that for me. 

Il lakcsa person of conviction 
ihf general coiucnsus. 1 wish Mr. Randall'lhel 
iH-st of luck with his future job searches. I jusI 
hiipe he realizes thai if he always fits in wilh the] 
•. roivd, then he will alwavs be one of Ihe crowd, 
'\ viewpoint like that wiu have no benefit lo his 



■J.iihaniel Rumschlag 

.r.iduate Student, 

unslruclion Engineering Technology 

..Ihi&gt; Editoi; 



To the editor. 

This letter is in respons 
Randall's letter lo Ihe edilor pu 
TJS^Aug. 29 issue, 

Zachary, docs the term "open-mindcdni 

nol include ideas and thoughts that you do i 

agree wilh? Does Nathan nol have a right 

Icxpress his views? To quote you, "In this couni 

' (loleratc) even the thoughts wc abl 

." Why can you not tolerate Nathan's 






"1 think It's .1 ^ood idi 
the people will knov 
IPFW baskclball tea: 






Hi'ading the edilonals in vour Maj 
.ind li.sloning to the ongoing debate ovi 
I liri.ili" reminds me of the riol in Epht 
,.ns, 'Some cncd one thing and some s 
ilu' assembly was confused, and most of them did 
nol know why they had come together," 

Much has been said about freedom of speech, 
.uademic freedom, freedom of religion, hypocrisy 
and fok'rancc. Bui il seems to me that something' 
very imijortani has been ignored, "rhal is truth. 
' Hamburger is nol the only one who has 
naivelv believed Ihot the 
place 'where tiuUi was 
^claimed while falsehood was 
ive now been rudely 



encd lo punish Ihe churches of Pergamos and! 
Thyatira for their tolerance of those things He 
hated Paul strongly rebuked the Corinthians lor 
their tolerance of a sexually immoral man among 
s. Liike them. Reallovecontronts with the truth when nec- 
ither. for cssary. It cries fire when there is a fire. Yes, "Cod's 
love calls us lo repentance." But there can be no. 
call lo repenlance without an identification of right 
and wrong. Bui that is not considered tolerant 

Lastly, there has been much said about 





'li 



play have been attacked for "bl.isting 
someone else's righftopcrsrmal expression." Yet 
they are themselves blasted. In two short articles, 
they were compared lo communist dictators, por- 
trayed as enemies of freedom, referred to as judg- , 
mental, called homophobic, cic. Yet those who 
a demic freedom attack Ihem wield the same two-edged sword. | 
only devoid of They are accused of trying to "porlray a group of' 
I al^urd that 1 people as enemies of ordinary people." Yel, they 
) describe it. I are themselves portrayed as such. They arc judged 
ithematics and for being judgmental, elc. Incidentally, a diclator- 
--L--.'-- jj^jp jj when a minority imposes its will on the 
majority, usually wilh the majority's money. It 
seems to me that this is the hearl of the debate The 

SLiestion is not whether Ihe play's pro mot i 
le righl to free speech, II is whether they I 
right to use Ihe taxpayer's money for the 



Thai would be fun because you get 
lo meet new people. We don't have 
many school things and it would be 
lice to do something like Ihal since - 






■A Randall 



Today's actions: 
u," tomorrow's regrets? 



To hide behind the guise of at 
in support of a work Ihal is nol 
tnilh but full of falsehood is si 
h.iven'l a Strong enough word V 
would think that a professor of r 
especially a writer, who claims to be a Chri; 
would both appreciate and defend trulh. 

Freedom is not the most important Ihing ir 
life, truth is. Our founding forefathers began thi 
Ueclaralion of Independence wilh an appeal t( 
iriiih: "We hold Ihesc truths to be self-evident,,,' 
They understood thai Ihe greatest enemy lo free- p^e, 

dom is Ihe abandonment of trwth. It was Jesus who My question lo Ihosc who art preaching free-' 

(.night us Ihal freedom comes as a result of Iruth dom and tolerance is Ihis: Where is your supporl' '• in 1 
llotiii 8 32|, To defend somebody's right to dese- for the freedom of speech of your opposition? At' 'Justice C 
ir.iie vour savior instead otdefendmg your savior least one man went to see Ihe play in defense oft iing opmi 

1- to desecrate Him yourself. It is to forsake and freedom. Yel he attacks the senators for speaking) ^GENERAL OF NEBRASKA el al 
d.ny Him, VVhen we sacrifice trulh on the altar of their mind. I wonder if the senators will get hisMCARHART, on partial birth aborlio 
trii-dom, we lose not only truth, bul also the very vote in supporl of their right lo espress Iheiri j"Afler dilating the cervix, the physicid 
thing we pay homage to, views? Is this debate really about freedom or not?; J will grab Ihe felus by ils feel and pull Ihe 

We have also heard much about love and tol- Is it really aboul tolerance or nol? It seems Ihat Ihe 'fetal body oul of the ulerus into the v, 
LT.ince. But il must be said that tolerance is nol only Ihing nol tolerated in this debate is the procla-l 'nal cavily. At this stage of develop m 

\\ least not in the way the word tolerance is mation of Iruth, That has to be the height of ■ the head is the largest part of Ihe body. 
;,^Dul God would hypocrisy. . As,suming the physic.aji has performed 

the dilation procedure correctly, the head 
Terry Carter will be held iiuide Ihe ulerus by the 

"raduale Student, Mathematical Sciences ., svoman s cervix. IVhile the fetus is stuck ^^oose lo have sex, then inherent wilhin 

m Iha position, dangling narlly oul of Ihe m Ihe consequences thai come with i 
woman 5 body, and [ust a few inches from a (.tovm up enouch lo have se 
Ihe play Thus week is the e.ception. completed birth, the physician uses an instru- %^ grown up c 



; words of Supreme Court 

rence Thomas, in his dissent- 

n STENBERG, ATTORNEY 



isod today Cod is love, yes _ _ 

lerale Ihe world of Noahs day He did n 
e Sodom and Gomorrah. Jesus would not 
e the moneychangers in Ihe lemple o 
nsv Dt the scribes and Pharisi-es He threat- 



From the 
Right 



A note from the editor 

It IS heartening this week to see so many let- 
iuT&gt; lo the edilor At the hearl of a democratic soci- 
fivislhenghl to express oneself in a public forum, 
^■^pecially in Ihe free press. 

This week il was brought- to my attention Ihal 
Till' Communicalor has failed to publish any let- 
tors other than those wilh which I personally agree, 
1 am gratehil to this individual for bringing this to 
my attention, as il opens Ihe opportunity to 
.idila-ss Ihe problem. 

Il is not Ihe policy of The Communicator lo fil- 
ler or censor certain letters based on their religious, 
political or other content. To the contrary, wc pub- 
lish nearly every letter Ihat is properly submitted 
(see policy, below). However, we receive very few 
lellers at all. Most of the ones (ve do ivceive, espe- 
cially rcgaidmg "Corpus Christi," are m support of 



1 will then cither 



Tlie editors of this paper are gralelul for feed., ,"^="'?'"='^,'^.,^ Ee'''°[' ■ 
back and inpul from our readers, including .hatir^^Xtuli or wifl'u*^. v....... .. .e.io.e 

which u cntical. If we have failed lo publish a ccr-(i,he brain and other inlracranjal contents from 
lam side's views, it is sunply for lack of submis- ' the fetal skull, collapse the fetus' head, and pull 
sions. The only tellers we won't publish are thosci.Jthe fetus from the u1 
which include hate speech, fighting wonds 
libelous material. 

t encourage each of you to spend just a few, 
minutes in email and send a Idler with your 
responses. Your tellers make such a difference, and 
yours could be the voice thai goes largely unheard 
simply because it appears we won't lislcn. 

Please, communicate with the staff on how we 
may belter serve you, our readers. It is only 
through open discussion thai Ihis paper and the 
persons who write and read 
improve Your voice is valued. 



le from my dec 



-' ' Did you know that in Roe vs. Wade 
' '- J22. 1973. the Supreme Court ruled thai viability. 
,'J or life, began al the third trimester? That meant 
' tlhat no abortion would be legal in Ihe third 
trimester, except in cases where the woman's 
health was in question. 

' Today, il seems abortion practitioners reg- 
ularly grab the baby-even when the baby Ls al 
nine months gestatiorv-by Ihe feel, and Dull it 
out of the woman. Then Ihe baby is stabbed in 
the back of the skull, its brai■^s are sucked out. 
at ivhich limt the head colbpses and Ilie doctor 



il Sal lb. 



It will change and Ihen pulls Ihcdead baby from the mother 

To me, thai is so disgusting. 1 couJdr 
im.igine watching that abortion praclihoni 
suck the living brains out of my child. If 



e bits of facts thatW 
■ ow Ihalll 
Roe ofl| 
Roe vs. Wade, now be Hei'cs abortion is wrong? |! 
Did you know thai when she won the right to' ' 
have the abortion in 1973. Ihal she gave birth to '■ 
a baby girl instead? In her book, "Won by : , 
Love.' she refers to abortion clinics as 'killine , 
centers' and says she prays for people who ai 
pro-choice. 

Bottom line, Jane Roe is pro-life. And Ihisfl 
from the very woman who foughl for your righl m 
to have an abortion. My, how things changej 
when you're older and looking back 
life. 

fust keep in mind that somethmg you doM 
today that may seem right may become s( 
thing thai ytou will regrel in Ihe years to co 



Editorial Board 



naging Edilor 



Nathan Dichl. Man. 
Todd Hun 
Da«Ti Earij, F&lt;alurei Edilor 
Jon Tedcrs, Sporii Edilor 
' Mishnnna Wood. Chtcf Repontr 
Dcnnlci Zhic. Phoio Ediior 
Knthi Delagrangc, Copy Editor 
EURStiiaiDaD,Adienising Mono 
Dorie Rej^olds, PuNulifr 



Contact Us! 



Mail: TheCommi 

WalbSludcni Union. 2101 E, Colise 

Blvd.. Fort Wiyne, (N 46S05 

' E'tttaii: slupapcr@holnics.iprw,edi 
F'oi: 481-6048 
Tdtphone: 
Editor 4S1-IS3S4 

Publither 481-6585 
Advertising: 481-6583 



Editorial Policy 



Unsigned ediioriali are ihe opinions of The Ccmmunicalor. 
They do nol neceisarily reflecl the vieni of IPFW. iis employees 
or its student body. A column is solely die opinion of lU author. 

Ttve Communicalor welcomes responses from lU readers. 
Leiios to ihe Edilor and guesi columns musi be signed, dated and 
accompanied b^a currenL li'olid address. 

All submissions made via c-mait will be verified by ptmne or 
in poson. Submissions via mail or e-mail wiihout ihis infontution 
will not t&gt;c published, cicepl under uiraordirury ci 
Cbss sunding ot 



le Is also lequcited. Addresses and pfione num- 



bers will never be publi^ed. 

Submissions must lie lypewrftien. double-spaced and no more 
ihan 400 uords. Il is preferred that submisjions be sent (o the eiroul 
oddicu listed lo the left ("Conlact Us^'), Submissions fora week's 
issue must be received prior lo 6 a.m, Monday pnix to the print 
date for timely consideration. 

Tfie ediional board of The Communicalor reserves ibe right lo 
edii all submissions for length, grammar, slyle and clanly. Lcscrs 
deemed libelous by The Communiealor's editorial board will not 
be published under any cireunuiances. 



Highlights 



Whafs up this week 

Wednesday, Sept. 5 

Delia Sigma Pi, Keltlcr ground level, 8 a.ni.-6 p.m. Recruitmenl 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer meeting, NF 257, noon-1230 p.m. 

Pagan Student Alliance meeting, NF 385, 7:30-10 p.m. 

Thursday, Sept. 6 

Campu.s Ministry Bible Study, Walb 114, noon-Ipm 

Phi Kappa Theta Music outside Walb, 9 a.m.-noon 

Black Collegian Caucus (ECC) Fundraiser, Kettler ground level, 11 

-2 p.m. 
Friday, Sept. 7 

Campus Ministry Fall Retreat Call 481-6992. Begins at 5:30 p.m. 
Delta Sigma Pi, Keltler ground level, 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Recruitment 
United Sexualities Weekend Camping Trip 
InlerVarsity Christian Fellowship group meeting, Walb G21, 6-11 
p.m. 

InlerVarsily Christian Fellowship group meeting, Walb Blue 
Room, 6-11 p.m. Pi Malh Club Welcome Back Picnic, 5-8:30 p.m. 
IP-GOP Callout meeting, Walb 110, noon-1 p.m. 
Saturday, Sept. 8 

Campus, Ministry Fall Retreat Call 481-6992 for further informa- 
tion. 

Sunday, Sept. 9 

IPFW Panhell Council Fall Formal Recruitment, Walb Union G2I- 
G21A, 222, 224, 226, 114 and 116, 3-10 p.m. 
Campus Ministry Fall Retreat Call 481-6992 for further informa- 
tion. 

Phi Kappa Theta Meeting, Walb 110, 6-10 p.m. 
Monday, Sept. 10 

Campus Ministry Bible Study, Walb 110, noon-1 p.m. 
International Student Org. Coffee House, Walb 114 and 116, 
12:30-1; 15p.m. 
Tuesday, Sept. 11 

IPFW Panhell Council Fall Formal Recruitment, Walb Union G21, 
G21A, 222, 224, 226, 114 and 116, 3-10 p.m. 
Accounting Society meeting, Walb 222, 224, 226, 7-9 p.m. 
Wednesday, Sept. 12 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer Meeting, Neff 257, noon-12:30 p.m. 
Pagan Student Alliance meetin, Walb 114 and 116, 7:30-10 p.m. 

Information courtesy of The Office of Student Life, from their 

web page: \l 

wivw. I p fw. ed u/s tu t i f e/ca) e nd ars/e ve |i I s/S e p_e ve .h tm 



Last Friday, Aug. 31 was Frank Borelli's final 
day at IPFW. As Ihe now retired former Vice 
Chancellor for Student Affairs, Borelli spent 
13 years in service to students. During his 
tenure, he oversaw the organization and 
development of Online Access to the Student 
Information System (OASIS), as well as the 
streamlining of Financial Affairs and registra- 
tion, 'They say you should retire when you're 
at the lop of your game," Borelli said. Citing 
the dramatic increase in student enrollment, 
plans for student housing and other recent 
successes of the university, he explained this 
was just the right time for such a move. "This 
really is as good as it gels in my position," he 
said. 



Phoio by Heidi Saliba, Editor 

''Frank Boi^li's absence will he fell for a long lime. 

No one lufis as strong an advocate for students as he 
liws." -Chancellor Michael Warlell 

"Frank Borelli will be sorehj missed fry Ihe office of 
Multicultural Services. It was under his leadership 
thnt Ihe office was able to expand its recruiting and 
retention efforts for students of color. It's because of 
Frank Borelli thnt me are able to offer a more hos- 
pitable atmosphere for students of color. Summer 
Bridge, for example, would not have happened if it 
weren't for his supfwrt." -Oms Patierson. dirrctar cf 
Multicultural Services 



Bye-bye Borelli 




"We'll mss liiin. He aiid 1 uvrieii very clos^y togeHier. He ttasagoci 
coUaigiie. " -Van Coujbudakis. darn cfArts and Sciences ^ 

"I'd like to thank him for bis years of outstanding service to Ike 
university and the students. " -Bob Brewer, operations assistant 
in Academic Counseling and Career Services and senior in 

engineering 



"Frank has been a terrific vice chancellor for Student AffaiM 
He's been an advocate for students, he's gone out of his loayla 
be sure people are treated fairly and that special circumstances 
are considered sympathetically. He tvill be missed. " -Jack Dahl, 
associate vice chancellor 



"Anytime we had an issue regarding the student "^Ve'/Z miss him." -Betty 
technology fee, Borelli was always concerned for the yockey, administrative assls- 
studenls. He wanted to make sure Ihe students got '""' '" "&gt;*? t''« chmccllor's 
the maximum benefit out of tluit dollar. Frank was office 
very pleasant to work with. Even when he hud n dif- 
ferent point ofvieio, Ik was willing to work from the 
best approach to things. " -Bob Koslrubanic, director 
af Information and Technology Services 




,it wwv.noizenQllulion.o 



lindy@B0Q-996-lB16. 



SERA TEC 
BIOLOGICALS 



(or (ull/parllime employmenl. 



)JE. ttiihlngiwiBVd. 
Fon tVivrK, IN 



Qinnibus ,^ctnve (^eties 




(^ulon 
Gardner 



"Overcoming Obstacles" 

An athlete with a histoiy of notable but obscure success, Gardner 
became a household name-and the pride of a nation-when he 
took die Olympic gold medal for wresding in Sydney in 2000. 

7 p.m.* Tuesday, Sept. 11, 2001 
IPFW Walb Student Union Ballroom 



Free public lecture 
Free parking 



Cy)/t 



AjnerJcan Sign Language interpreter 

proiided upon request. 

Lecture funded ty a grant from ibe 

English, Bonter, SiUdxllFowuiation 

Media sponsors: WBNI89-I widNewsCbannel 15- 



■ IPFW ■ 



Fourth Annual Presidential Ball 

Presented by die Allen County Democratic Party 



^Stil 



A Tribute to LBJ#' 
Lyndon B. Johnson 



■day, September 1#2001 

7:30 p.m. to Midri|ht 

GRAND WAYNE CENTER 

i^ Dancing to sP 

rISig Band Sounds &amp; ^ 

More from the 
IPFW Jazz Ensemble 



$10 per person 
Dress to Impress 

For infonnation call: 

DemocrRtic Headquarters 

@ 478-8239 

For tickets call: 

Chris Patterson, IPFW Office of 

Multicultural Services 

@ 481-6605 




Features 



Scpiembcr 5, :oi)l 



-lollywoc 



'Jay and Silent BoB Strike Back' 

A movie revieiv by Jeff Beecham, Staff Writer 

In the movie "Jay 3i\d Siltrni Bob Sin kc B^ck." Eventually Ihc duo makes il to Hollywood and | 

}ay and Silent BoB (real viewers lo an oplelive- Ihey weed their way Ihroogh the ms 

filled, crass mnvic about their ioumcy to sets (o save Ihe day and Ihcirname 
Hollywood to pralccl their "good" [Mine. As far as Ihe acting and diri 

The movie revolves around [ay and Silent pretty mueh Ihe typical Kevm Smith movie. lay I 

BoB's altcmpt lo get lo Hollywood lo slop Ihe film- (Jison Mewts) and Silent BoB (Smith) do (heir jobs I 

ing of a movie about them (or ralher, Ihe comic pretty well, which isn't a terribly ditricult task (or I 

book ch.iraclers based on Ihi^m) or something like Silenl BoB, bul nonetheless they manage not lo I 

that. At any rate, after finding oul that Ihe movie is mess Ihines up loo badly. The movie seems lo move 

bemg made wilhoul royalties being paid, they rather well and therearcnumcrouscameo perform- 

decidc that maybe Ihe best thing to do would be to anccs such as the hitchhiking George Carlin. a hilar- 

go lo Hollywood losel things straight. Along Ihe ious Matt Damon/Ben Affleck "Good Will 

way, Ihey meet many different people, eventually Hunting" skil and an equally funny Chris Rock I 

finding a group of animal riehls aclivisls lo ride directing piece. 

with. Prcdiclably enough. Jay Tails in lox'e with one For fans of "Mallrats" and "Clerks." this m 

of Ihe activists by the name of Justice (Shannon will be right down your alley and you'll probably 

Elizabclh),and soon pledgeshimselfand Silent BoB like this one lust as much as its piedecessors. F( 

lo Ihe task of breaking inlo an animal lab. However, those unfamiliar with Smith's work, unless you a: 

this is only a ruse lo divert the attention of Ihe cops, a big fan of movies with lots of vulgar, childish | 

Her cohorts make olf with the loot from a nearny |okes and doobie-smoking slonprs. you'll probably 

diamund eichiinge, leaving our Iwo heroes holding find Ihis movie vcr&gt;- lirmg. 



wan tnans eo ^g 

odvapttlsa In Bhe ' 
eemmanloeieop? 



mmmmm 



impact Art 




Judy Chicafiii will be rvhibiting hei 
ciilleclion. "Resolutions- A Slilch in Time," 
,il Ihe Fort Wavne Museum of Ail from 
^•pt 14 through Nov. i. Chicago collabo- 
r.iti'd with long-lime acquaintance Jane 
Tlmmpson and 13 other arlisis to crcale the 

The colleclmn, according lo the Fort 
W.iyne Museum of Art (FWMAJ, deals 
wiih "the seven basic human values which 
Chicago and those who worked on the 
project felt essential lo human survival: 
l.imily, responsibility, conservation, toler- 
ance, human rights, nope and courage." 

The seven values an? lo be represcnl- 
ed individuallv through old phrases and 
proverbs whicn Chicago and acquaintanc- 
es believe still apply today, such as "Home 
Sweet Home." 



&lt;11L 



■'A Slilch in Time ' refers lo the cxhib- 
il as more than a title or a proverb. A num- 
ber ol the pieces feature needlework. The 
medium was chosen to help blur Ihe line 
bt'lween fine arts and crafls. 

David Revere McFadden. curator ji 
the American Craft Museum who organ- 
ized Ihe show, said the exhibit "confirms 
Ihe value of tradition and traditional skills 
in contemporary art and underscores ihe 
significance of craft and craftsmanship a'- 
Ihe'backbone'of cicalivity inall Ihe arts ' 

Chicago has created other socially n'l- 
evanl works such as "The Holotausi 
Project" and "The Birlh Projecl." Chicago's 
piece "Tlie Dinner Parly" was met with 
great controversy. It was completed in 197y 
and symbolically celebrated historical 
women through a multi-media approach 
The FWMA Hill show a movie about 'Thr 
Dinner Party" at 1 p.m. on Saturdays dur 
ing the exhibit. 

Chicago's other ivorks can be vicm'J 
in the number ol books she has wrillen 
One such book is "Women and Arl. 
Contested Territory" published by Watson 
Guplill Publications. 

Chicago will make an appearance at 
Ihe opening reception for the exhibit on 
Sepl. 14. Her speech begirwal 7 p.m. and i'. 
limited lo the first 150 people, Reservalion'. 
can be made with the FmfA by calliiii: 
422-6467 before Sepl 10. 




I® 




48X-6583 



';''45°iT.miun, Channels 

. il Pay '■"V"",. 
. 45 Music Channels 

456-9000 




COMPARE-.- 

ComcQslDigilol Coble 



:e and inlwHo'"" 

■crnn/Jihtobuyo'l™" 



Prese?iting donn fip-nitiire that leaves you money far tuition. 



mmM 



No cquipmeni to W 
Ggurorteedonl'Tiei 

.lenKtiveo^-^reenprogiomg. 

Digital p'cM"' °'^ '^"^ 

aSCkiWiolCOqwliV'™"' 

d5kiec"iol'''cm'^"'Se'v.cei 






MATTRESS &amp; FURNITURE 



WAREHOUSE 



H3QH 






IPFWs #f Dance Party Club! ... DUH! 



THE BEST LIVE ROCK THURSDAY-SATURDAY 



nursday.SeptanAarG 

WAIUHNIS 



MAGGIE SPUIS 



STARTS AT SPM • NO COIER 

SI.7S LONG.WECKS * SI. SO SHOTS 

S2 ALIO ANTHONY PJNTS 

Wednesday, September 5 

U\T ACOUSTIC MLSIC STARTS AT gPM 
•SO COVER' 

MIKECONLEY 




i\ TIiunday,8e|itsintierl3 

H^ SONNY TAYLOI BAND S FIIENIS 

' L-^*^ Friday. SaWBiitarH 

BLAGITBOTIGIIN 



GENEIATIBNS f^ GIIBSGI 

LADIES NITE THURSDAY • COVER JUST $1 



M*0*M*S (Midwest Original Music Showcase) 



Tmsday. Sentanmr n 

lliikirry lirrluu w/Srici Eiilu 




TDsalay. Septontier 14 

Tit! IISBniry w/Curafil Jikitii 

On ttie Landing • 135 W. Columbia St., Fort Wayne • 422-5055 • &gt;vww.columbiastreetwest.com 



Year of redemption? 
Maybe! 



By Adam Spielh. Slad Wnler 

1908, TTiaC* right, 1903,11s 
been 93 years sine? Ihc Chrcago 
Cubs have won a War\d Series 
Us been 12 years since Iheyvc 
won Ihcir diuision. One o( Ihe 
oldest iL'ams in baseball hasfceti 
almost an entirt- renlury o( 
mediocre se.isoiLs. 

Nevertheless, Ihe lack □! 
winning has not seen a north 
side Chicago ballpark lum into 
a ghosl Held or a patkmg lot. 
Wrielc^ Field, one ol the oldest 
fields in baseball, has seen con- 
sistent fan support through Ihe 
decades Cubbicalicion,&gt;dosslill 
flock lo Ihe friendly confines 
like loyal sons visiting Iheir sick 
mothers. Nearly every game Ihis 
u .^pj [he stadium, 



half on ihe disabled lisl. All-star 
|ohn Lieber is also keeping the 

pitching staff lough by winning 
17 games this] 



and yes, Ihe gi 
baseball are dressed 







, il 

Bom and r.iiscd in northern 
Indiana, being a Cubbie fan is 
almost a biological inherilance. 
My father has laken me lo near- 
ly 3 dozen Cubs games and 
they've won every lime, even 
Ihe games in Cinci 



Colorado, 

I've seen Ihe great Andre 
Dawson, Ryan Sandbcfg and 
Mark Grace, I've seen grand 
slams, triple plays and shut-out 
games. I've even sang Take Me 
Out lo Ihe Ballgame' with the 
legendary Harry Carey. I must 
admit he did scire me the (irsi 



ade and acquired 

Ihe sirong hilling and leader- 
ship of veteran Fred McGriff 
(lom Tampa Bay. "The Crime 
Dog" has had a rough transition 
to VVrigley Field, who hosis the 
most number of day ^ames in 
Ihe majors, Eric Young is anoth- 
er talented veteran at second 
base. The shorlslop position is 
--•J with Rickey Gutierrez. 
Who could lorgel Sammy 



id solid with Rici 



lels^ 



langing out thai 
1 the song~Bu'i 



his way 

the fans loved 

They loved their Cubs Ihen 
and tney always will. 
Abandoning the Cubs just for a 
lew losing seasons (well, maybe 
more than a lew) can almost be 



cnlcrloining 20lh ccnlury ol 
Cubs baseball, but this is a' new 
century and I don'l think seeing 
the Cubs win one oennant is loo 
much lo ask. Tney certainly 
have the laleni this year. 

Kerry Wood is throwing 
again after a long season and a 



"Slammin"' Sosa? Sosa had 
already joined on elite group of 
Mark McGwire and The Great 
Bambino" Herman Rulh, by 
accomplishing four 50-plus 

Sosa is right on Ihe tail oi 
Barry Bonds for this year's home 
run race. Both men are on track 
lo break McGwire's '98 season 
record of 70. Sosa has also 
worked on being more pa lien I at 
Ihe plate. He's Teaming lo slay 
away from Ihe outside pitches 
Ihal have hurl him in previous 
seasons. Hccurrenlly "is leading 
Ihe leagiue in walks and inlen- 
lional walks. 

All in all, Cubbie fans may 
actually experience some post- 
season bliss Ihis year. The laleni 
and pride is there, so i boldly 
predict a World Series 
Championship in Chicago this 
season... uhh... well, Ihis ccniu- 



Sports 

Meet Athletic Director Mark Pope 



By Adam Spielh. Staff Wnler 



AS: Whal other prugnms have 
you worked with Wfore IPFW in 
lerms of athletics? 
MP: None. 1 came lo IPFW from 
Lincoln Financial Group here m 
town, I've worked for Lincoln for 
12 years in Fort Wayne. First as 
an allomey in Iheir hiigalion sec- 
tion, secondly as direclor of Iheir 
icderal govemmeni relations 
lining lobbying on bchall on Ihe 
company in Washington D.C. 
,]nd thirdly, and most recently, 
uorking with Lincoln re-insur- 



mind, bul al the same irnic it was 
very, very interestmg lo have a 
chance lo rclum to a campus life 
and to do something that 1 love, 
which is work with spotis, and to 
see if 1 could make a mid-life 
change. I had been involved as a 
privale allomey in a law firm (or 
a dozen years.. .so it's lime to 
make another change in my life. 
And good [JDrd willing, 1 11 do Divisi 



Ihisfo 



■nyci 



AS: As farasspor 



your pas I 
igh --'---' 

.- Jiavec'- ■■" 

kelball, base! 
my era were the big Ihrec and the 
only Ihree.Then I picked up ten- 
nis. Alter Ihal, thai was really in 
taw school. I started playing ten- 
nis, nol competitively, bul jusi as 
a sport and now I focus in on 
golf, which 1 love. 
AS: What was your reaction 
when you were offered Ihe posi- 
tion? Was being an aihlolic direc- 
tor something you aspired lo? 
MP; Well, you know, it's a very 
intriguing Ihing and I can'l sit 
here and tell you thai all my life I 
wanted to be an athletic director, 
bul I've always had a very deep. 
avid interest in sports! graduat- 
ed from both Purdue and 
Indiana, so the lU connection 
here is prelly sirong. When 
Chancellor Wartcll first 

approached me with this possi- 
bility, 1 can tell you Ihal he did 
knock mc over with a feather, Il 
was the forthest Ihing from my 



AS: You said Ihal you cradualed 

from both Indiana and Purdue. 

What degrees did you receive? 

MP: A bachelor's degree from 

Purdue and a \aw degree from 

Indiana. 

AS: Whal was your bachelor's 

dcETEein? 

MP: Polilical science, US. history 

and finance. 



MP: Well. I think Ihal first 
foremost, whal we need to do is 
gel the community involved in 
IPFW sports. This should be Ihe 
community's university This 
should be the university above 
all others thai the community 
looks lo for its support. Much 
like in West Lafavclle, people 
look to Purdue and much like in 
Bloominglon, people look lo lU. 
We have a chance lo break 
through and be Ihe community's 
univcrsily. Community con be 
deHned in a bunch ol ways and 
for purposes of our discussion 
today, I would like lo concentrate 
on Ihe community being Ihe 
community ol sludents at IPFW. 
I would like lo see the slu- 
dents return lo the Gales Center. 
Ihe soccer fields and when ive go 
to the Coliseum lo really support 
our learns. We're nol going to do 
that unless &gt;ve find out from the 
students whal il is Ihey want in 



rerms o! why ihcy would Spent 
Iheir lime at our evenB 
AS: You mentioned the Coliseum. 
Do you lofesee basketball games 
held there to gel more of a 

MP: 1 nol only foresee Ihem, it's 

ifling lo happen on Nov. 16 al 

^30 pfli- Tne men's basketball 

Irst-ever 



ing with Ihe Coliseum folks right 
now lo finalize lickel arrange- 

conslanl. as has occurred al the 
Gales Center, and Ihal is sludenls 



mly and Ih'al mav bo our fault for 
starting lale. When I Tirst look 
this job in |u1y. we had no cotpo- 
rale support. IVe were able lo 
bruig in quite a bit. bul we still 
needed tichel sales lo break even. 
Vfe did gel those ticket sales and 



e did r 



.• th.in 



viUgi 






I's talk aboul the Soccer 
Showcase. II seemed lo be a suc- 
cess, even though we lost 
MP: Well, that's an interesting 
subject. I've spent Ihe first month 
of my career here at IPFW work- 
ing on Ihis Soccer STiowcase and 
Ihe last 43 hours analy7ing it. 1 
think that the Soccer Showcase 
was a success from all aspects. 
The coaches came up lo me and 
indicated Iheir sincere apprecia- 
tion (or all Ihal we did. t was just 
looking on the University of 
Kentucky's website and Ihcy 
called the IPFW Soccer Showcase 
one ol Ihe most prestigious pre- 
season tournaments in the coun- 
try, as evidenced by Ihe quality 
teams assembled this weekend, 
Thai's a prctly good quote from 
the Universily of Kcniucky, so 
Ihe coaches were thrilled. All of 
Ihem want lo come back, plus 
we've got requests from 
Conncclieui, who won Ihe 
national championship lasl year 
and Southern Methodist, who 
finished second. So we've gol the 
inlerest. However, whal we did 
nol get was a wide bond of sup- 
port from the corporate commu- 



Now I think ivh.)l 
now thai \w haie a full year 
before the ne&gt;J one Ishotvcasc). is 
really develop an organizing 
commillec. involve all aspects ol 
this community who are m teres I- 
ed in soccer and delermmc what 
il is they want I can sit here al 
this desk and tell you thai I think 
the Socc«r Showcase should have 
this, this and Ihis. Bul you knotv, 
it's the soccer people who drive II 
and Ihcy are the ones thai need lo 
tell me what we should be doing. 
Everything that I have read 
-lys that if you don'l have c '- -' 



^all le 



'. The 



for Ihal are significant 

First of all. the costs arc high 
from player personnel lo coach- 
ing, equipment and facilily 
standpoint. Secondly, when you 
start doing things with college 
football al a Division I level, you 
immediately throw in a big prob- 
lem in regard lo gender equity 
and Title IX, which requires that 
your sports activities mirror the 
percentage of student popula- 
tion. If we slarl awarding football 
scholarships, which are obvious- 
ly all going to be male, we are 
going lo Ihruw things way oul of 
kilter. You never say never and 
Ihere are things thai could hap- 
pen that would make me change 



a lot of other things Ihal 
higher priority. 



/. I've gol 




W^uld you pay $4.95 to 

pass your next 



•o win QuIckSiuey 



QuickStudy 



fearless 
banking 




WELLS 
FARGO I 



The Next Stage' 



Now that you're ready to go it alone with banking, check out the convenient 
Student Combo'" Package. It backs you up with a range of worry-free 
banking services that are easy to use. Stop by your nearest 
Wells Fargo location today. 




Campus/Region 



The Bookmark offers 
textbook alternative 



Ry Rj-an f Shcphtrd. Slall Wrilet 

"So many poapic Ihink it's illegal lo get 
(their books) from anywhere but 
FollcllV sard Lanni Connelly, owner of 
The llookmark used bookstore. She wants 
people to know Ihal ihcre is nothing ille- 
g.il iibuul buying teilbooks Irom her 

Since il opened eight years ago. The 
Bookmark h.is been Iraaing tentbooks. 
Five years ago, Ihc store began purchas- 
ing teilbooks and reselling them, 

Conncllj' said Ihc store's textbook 



i prices. Her 

_ , ^ which boo! 

keep on hand. She said il is dilficult 
get lists of classes bccau.ic the university 
is "very political" aboul who it gives its 
book lists lo. 

Actotding to Connelly. IPFW tries to be 
more sup[&gt;ortive of the on-campus book- 
store. "It depends on who you are dealing 
with," she said. The lists |ust aren't read- 
ily available," 

Still, some professors give their book 
lists to her inslead of Follelt's. and then 
tell their students to gel the texts at T1&lt;e 
Bookmark. 

She offers students a challenge to make 
up their own minds, "If you wanl a good 
price and books in good condition, come 



The cost of tickets on the upper tier and the two outer 
Mctions on the lower tier ate M (ot adults and S4 lor chil- 
dren under the age of 6. The three uincr sections of the 
tower tier and the areas behind the bo» seals on boih 5idc5 
of the court are S12 lor adults and S6 for children under age 
si». Courlside bo» seats are reserved (or corporations jnd 
Sponsors 

"Student involvement is crucial. It's their chance lo sup- 
port Iheit team. Division I and themselves. This is a gieat 
way to kick off Division I b^kclball in Fori Wayne-Coach 
Doug Noll has put a strong team together," Miller said. 

At the first part of the celebration coach Noll and the 
learn tvill speak at bonfire near the Chiller Plant on Nov. 15 
at 6 p.m. This event is fret. Then, the next day. starting at 6 
p.m., the Alumni Association ls hosting a tailgate party at 
the Memorial Coliseum. According to Jennifer Bosk, direc- 
tor of the.Alumni Association, there will be nine different 
areas for each of IPFW's schooLs. 

^If you're a student and you want a mentor or business 
information, you can talk to people in special areas. This is 
an added opportunity where people can network. Alumni 
arc lookmg for new employees and students arc looking lor 
information," Bosk said. 



RAD, /rom p. 1 



INVITATION 

All IPFW StutJents. Faculty, and Staff 

are invited 

to contribute to a catnpus-wide review of IPFW's 

DRAFT STRATEGIC PLAN 

Help address the future mission, 

vision, and goals of IPFW by joining members of the 

IPFW STRATEGIC PLANNING GROUP 

in Kettler 146 on: 

Wednesday, September 12, from noon- 1:15 p.m. 

or 
Thursday. September 20, from 3 p.m. -4:15 p.m. 

Call 481-6795 if you have questions. 



Purdue both offer it on their main campuses. Statistics 
show that a rape occurs every 21 hours on a college campus 
somewhere in the United States. 

Davis and Wilson arc port of a group ot 3300 other RAD 
instructors in the United Stales and Canada. Seventy stu- 
dents have graduated from RAD at IPFW since the program 
was implemented 14 months ago, and there are over 
125,000 graduates nationally. 

According lo Wilson, she and Davis want Iheprogram to 
reach as many women as possible. Although they arc 
fiappy with the number of graduates they've had. the 
instructors are constantly encouraging more women lo take 
the course. Davis said the program belongs to the people of 
IPFW and they should utilize it. 

"II is a phenomenal program," Davis said. "We've had 
great success with il." 

The program is continuing to grow and plans are in place 
for an instniclor's course lobe taught at IPFW nett August, 
Currently. Davis and Wtson arc IPFW's only instructors. 

"Most women walkout (of the program) feeling like they 
could conquer the world," Davis said. Annie Wcissncr, a 
RAD graduate, agrees with this statement and says she has 
recommended the course lo every woman she knows, 

"One of (he real strengths is thai it leaches you tech- 



il this 
IPnv duffle 

bag A cash bar !•- open tu student older than 21 that have 
proper idenlili.-.ilion Because ot the presence of alcohoL 
said Bosk, studftiL'. ol all apes should register beforehand 
by calling. Then; will bi' a lot ot iheenng going on, Vh'W 
make a lot ol noiw bivjuse thk'. L-; our lint weekend home 
game gomg Divbion I." Bosk said. 

Pope may bring in an area high school pep band to per- 
form throughout Hie game. When the game has ended the 
court will be cleared for "Cenoratiom. 

They pby 70s. 80s and modem music. It should appeal 



IPSGA. 

Planning for homcconiing has been goine on since the 
summer Miller said he would like mpul from students 
about what they would hke toseeal this event. He can be 
reached at 481-6590 or via email at 
stui-pspehoJmcs.ipfw.edu. For more information about 
homecoming call athletics at 481-6643. 



niques, as well as how lo be aware. II gives you choices and 
it's general enough thai you can feclsecure in any situa- 
tion," she said. 

Wcissncr also said that il is sad that our society 
has come to need courses like RAD. but it Is benefi- 
cial lor women to have the lools il they need them. "1 
think il is something women should do." she said. 

Davis stresses that the program docs not label men, it 
simply equips women with the necessary lools to protect 
themselves. Title IX of federal law allovrs the course lo be 
taught exclusively to women, A RAD program for kids and 
ji new RAD program for men do exist, although they are 
notyel available at IPFW. 

Tnc 12-hour class will be divided into six two-hour ses- 
sions. One class will be held from 4:3l&gt;-6i30 p,m, on Sept. 10, 
12, 17, 19, 24 and 26. Another will be held Oct. 9, 11, 16, 18, 
23 and 25, TTicse are the only classes scheduled for llic year, 
but plenty of openings are available, Students arc cncour- 
agL-d lo register and can do so until Ihe first day of classes. 

RAD is also available lo the public for a fee of S25 For 
more infornialion contact Amy Wi^on at wilsona@ipftv,edu or 
Jeff Davis al davisi6iplw.edu. To register, contact 
Continuing Education ,it 481-6619. 



Organizational meeting planned for campus yearbook 



Rob Lopcr 481-6589 or Heidi Saliba at 481-6584. 

L^oper said the yearbook will be a possibility only t/ 
enough pcrsoris become involved in its organization and if 

needed for successful &lt;^"°"6'' f^P'*^ ^"^ inlereslcd in purchasing a book. No 
,„j .■..j__i- ,. — |^,^,p| 3^ invit- 



Anyone inlcrcslcd in working on Ihe slafi of IPFW'« 
first yearbook is invited to an organizational meeting this 
coming Monday Sept. 10 al 10 a.m. in Walb 215. About 35 

sludents and two faculty advisers are needed for successful ~: • .■ , , ■ 

oiganlzalion ollhi yrartook. Anyons inloreslod in working t»P«n'"™ ? race»s.iry and sIndCTis ,il any 
on Uie slaff. but unable lo attend the event, is asked to calt '-■" '" participate. 



PLEASE RECYCLE THIS NEWSPAPER 
GREEN BINS ARE LOCATED IN EVERY BUILDING 



CAREER SUCCESS HAPPENS HERE. 
MAKE IT HAPPEN FOR YOU. 

If you are looking for a challenging and rewarding career, visit us on 

Wednesday, September 12th 

10ain-2pm 

Ground floor of Kettler, next to Subway 

Part-tiine evening positions 

$10.00 an hour + shift pay 

Collector 



Under ihe direction of the Colleclion Supervisor, you will be responsi- 
ble (or Ihe collection, sen/icing and liquidation of all assigned accounts. 
Requires a HS diploma (or equivalent), typing 15 wpm, and the ability 
to handle large volume of accounts with a high level of cuslomet set- 
vice. Must be dependable and prompt, CoHeclions experience is nol 
required; however, one year of experience is necessary in customer 
service, sales, or telemarketing. Knowledge of terminal use. automated 
systems and windows experience preferred. 



You'll enjoy a competitive rate plus incentives and benefits like immedi- 
ate health/ijenlal/life insurance, tuition reimbursement, a free checking 
account and paid vacations/holidays. If unable lo attend please forward 
your resume to: National City, Attn: Human Resources, 110 W Berry 
Street, Fort Wayne, IN 46802; Phone: 219-461-7175; Fax: 219-461- 
6243; E-mail: rachel.arroyo@nationalcity.com 



National City 




