Indiana Universiti 



Purdue Universiti 



Fort Wayne 



Wednesday, Feburary 9. 2005 



The ComiuNiCATOR 



INSIDE: 



■ 2005 Softbau Preview 

Coach Fisher and team must 
depend on one thing to win: 
pitching, page as 




Doctor Seuss's War Effort 

The renowned storybook author/ 
illustrator created political 
cartoons during WWII. PAGEA2 



■ Buying Columnists 

Three national columnists 
have been caught accepting 
federal money. PAGEA4 



Volume 35, Issue 19 



THIS WEEK ► 



their Spring 2005 edition. Page At 

1 Campus diversity survey is avail- 
able on my.IPFW.edu. 



n rehabilitating wounded vets. 



and stereotypes. Page AS 



ES333 



■ Two important wins put Coach 
leyball team at an advantage. 



Giovanni speaks of NASA, poetry, heritage 



Nikki Giovanni 
At least she'd like to be. 

it Wednesday, as part of 



at the ballroom at Walb Student 

Early in the lecture, 
Giovanni told the aud 
she spoke in front of 
NASA engineers for Black His 
lory Month a few years ago. 

"I am a space freak,' 



you know, but e 
while you have to write about 
what you knew. They way you 
thought when you were 25 is 
different than when you were 
35 and 45. You have to be able 



ilioui the ant and 






"'Well, we don't have one,' 

"So they went to their 'N' 

file and got my name. They 



Giovanni was 
for a Grammy in 2003 for her 
spoken word CD collection of 
poetry, but ultimately lost to 
political comedian Al Franken. 

"The phone rings, and 
Kelly Martin, my publicist, 
calls and says, 'Are you sitting 
down?' At my age, that usually 




iviniMii'1 lei liiiiiiniiom 
them," said 
Giovanni. She didn't specify a 
date of release for the book. 

A student In the audience, 
Alicia Crlpps, asked a question 



POET: Nikki Giovanni signs autographs after her lecture Wednesday for guests , 
with books. Giovanni came to the campus as part of the Omnibus Lecture Series, 
sponsored by the university and the English Bonner Mitchell Foundation 



s nominated for a from her i 



Grammy, I said, 'That's really same name. 
nice.' I didn't know just how big • Subtitled "We're Going 

it was," Giovanni said. Mars," the poem begins, "We 

She read a few poems going to Mars for the same r&lt; 

from her collection, including son Marco Polo rocketed 

"Quilting the Black-Eyed Pea" China /for the 



t book of the lumbns trimim il h 



/ for the reason we fall in love / 
It's the only adventure." 

When prompted, Giovan- 
ii spoke briefly about writing. 



.itu-nili-d Mm.' lecture 

"1 thought Nikki was 
great," Harding said, "Her po- 
etry Is beautiful, and she talked 



writing what about so much." 



Confluence literary journal 
features student art and writing 



By Stephen Pepple 

speppleBipfwcommunicator.org 



Confluence, a literary magazine published 
in the spring annually by Arts Group, is ^i'cHiii; 
submissions from writers, poets, artists and pho- 
tographers. 

Sarah Sandman, the editor of Confluence, 
said, "I think the journal is a wonderful way tor 
students, alumni and faculty to publish their 
creative work on campus. We encourage anyone 
who is interested to submit and we are looking 
forward to having another successful issue this 



Spring 2005." 

Confluence, first published in 1989, is a lit- 
erary m^t/inc Miai ,i&lt; i epis submissions of prose 
(both fiction and creative non-fiction), photogra- 
phy, line drawings and poems. The journal ac- 
(i-pis works from si uili nis, .ill mini, faculty and 
Other members nf the Ion Wayne community. 

Up until this year, Confluence was &lt; emptied 
and edited completely In siudents. While the 
journal will remain milrp.uoVrH ibis year, il will 



► CONFLUENCE: Page A2 



Count your taxings 



project, aniirdiii)! to assi 
professor Carl Keller. 
"It's really a very 



The Internal Revenue Ser- 
vice has come to IPFW— and it 
is looking for taxpayers. 

In conjunction with the 
IPFW department of account- 
ing and finance, the IRS is spon- 
soring the Volunteer Income 
Tax Assistance program (VITA) 



pleted an IRS-sponst 



Amounting students do- 



ficatlon, which "sets them apart 
from the normal accounting 
student," according to Keller. 

In addition to completing 
the workbook materials, the 
students also learn to use IRS 
software to complete the tax re- 



New campus survey 
to measure diversity 

■ Survey is slated to cover students' 
perceptions of minorities 



IPFW is wondering what 
you think about diversity on 
campus. 

The Diversity Council of 
IPFW is sponsoring a survey 
aiming to measure students' 
perceptions of diversity. The 
survey has been online since 
Feb. 1 and will run through Feb. 
15, and will question students 
about their feelings and experi- 
ences on campus. 

IPFW had some surveys 












trends or change at IPFW. 

"Campus climate is some- 
thing you can never get finished 
working on, because every year 
you get hundreds of new fresh- 
man who come to campus — for 
many people, it's the first time 
they've been on a campus this 
large, for many people, the 
first time they've been in an 
this diverse." she 



that directly measured diver- 



We haven't really asked about 



As stated by the council, 
the goals of this survey are to 
address more minority groups 
than surveys in the past, to 
create awareness that the uni- 
versity cares about the feelings 
of minorities on campus, and 
that it will become a "vehicle 



► SURVEY: Page A3 



IUPUI receives $1 million for 
researching amputee rehabilitation 



.By Stephen Pepple 

spepple©ipfwcommumcator.rjrg 



In Iraq alone, more than 10,622 U.S. personnel have been 
wounded since March 2003. 

The U.S. Department of Defense is offering the Indiana Cen- 
ter of Rehabilitation Sciences and Engineering Research (ICRSER) 
$1 million to research the rehabilitation ol soldiers injured in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. 

The Defense Department awart 
Indianapolis, the grant so that the 
treatment and reliahiliiatiun ol soldi 
battlefield. Much of this study will 
don of patients who lost limbs. 

The center completed preliminary research before seeking 
the grant. This research was funded by IUPUI and private fund- 
ing. 



, the ICRSER requires 



To compile data on limb reph 
advanced machinery that costs the tenter about S3 million a year. 
Such machines are used to balance and fit prosthetics. 

In 2002, the ICRSER only received 545,000 in research fund 
ing, due to the centers lack of infrastructure for rehabilitation re- 
search. 

The Defense Department sj;iant givrs .i jumpstart to the cen- 
ter's current and future programs. The center will allocate 
the grant money toward infrastructure. The 
more federal funding that will be distributed this year. The U.S. 
will grant at the least $450 million this year for rehabilitation sci- 
ence and engineering. 

Mark Sothmann. Ph. D., pro- 
fessor of Health Sciences and as- ► REHAB: Page A2 




AMPUTEES: A researcher holds a piece of OASIS, a 
frenseek material which is applied to hard-to-heal wounds. 
OASIS is an Indiana product that is likely to have 
significant benefit for the rehabilitation of traumatic 
amputees. 



ipm 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46806 



Newsroom: (260) 481-8564 

Fax:(260)481-6045 

Advertising Dppl : (260) 461-6583 

E-mail: contact@iptwcommunlcator.org 



I :i.y\- ■■■' 



The Communicator 






mm mi 



Seuss's cartoons not just for kids 

■ History professor Glen Gendzel spoke about the cartoonist's WWII cartoons at 
the Anthropology Luncheon Feb. 2 



Andrew Welfle 

Editor-in-Chief 

aweHls04prwcommunlcatof.ot 

K.E. Casey 

Managing Editor 

laUHjIUftui 



Alden Bordner 

Advertising Manager 

abonJnafOtpfwcomiTHjrricatof.ofg 

Katie Prultt 

Copy Editor 

k pru IHO I pfwcom m u n lcator.org 

David Hunter 

News Editor 

cMKinterOtp1wcommiiritcator.org 

Kelly Royal 

Photo Editor 

kroyalOlprwcommunlca1or.org 

Anthony Maurer 

Sports Editor 

Kelly Lynch 

A&amp;E Editor 

k lyn c h Of pfwco mmunicator.org 

Brianna Belford 

Page Designer 

bbe MordW pfwcom m un lest or. o rg 

Steve Pepple 

Chief Reporter 

Done Reynolds 

Publisher 

dmync4dseipfwcomrrMtlC3tor.org 



Publisher 

(260)481-6585 



One doesn't usually look 
t the literature of Dr. Seuss for 



According to history pro- 
fessor Glen Gendzel, however, 
Dr. Seuss was a very successful 
political canoonist before he 
wrote books for children, and 
some of his children's books 
have a social message as well as 



Don't Let Them Carve THOSE Faces on Our Mount 



BUY 

UNITED STATES 

SAVINGS BONDS 

AND STAMPS! 



In his lecture "The World 
War II Cartoons of Dr. Seuss" 
at the Anthropology Luncheon 



In the late 1930s. Seuss, 
whose real name is Theodor 
Geisel, was a very successful 



E— 



designing 
product ads for companies. But 
according to Gendzel, Suess 
made a decision to drop his ca- 
reer in advertising. 

"Seuss was very offended 
by Hitler and what was going 
on in Europe at the time, and 
that drove him to put down his 
illustrator's pen and devote his 
cartoons to one cause... getting 
America involved in the 
s believed we should 




Cartoon courtesy of University of California San Diego 






Se- SEUSS: This cartoon is one of many that Theodor Geisel, also known as Dr. 

the Seuss, drew during World War II. It is not a well-known fact that Geisel was 

and fight Hitler," Gendzel exclusively a children's storybook author/illustrator. 



Seuss worked hard to paint 
, the Nazis, and later the 

a very unflattering light. He v 



it of the 



it of Hitler at a time when 

.ere opposed to entering the war. 

"(Cartoons) are genius in their ability to quickly 
&gt; draw Inures and pli 



i few lines 
1 that draws attention 
immediately," said communications professor Richard Hess. "Seuss 
had an uncanny knack for doing just thai. He often portrayed crazy 
and outlandish situations to gel his puint across He did anything to 
funherhispoliiii.il agenda u bile drawing! 

eon 

I, an 

who attended the lecture. Gendzel pointed out books like "Horton 
Hears a Who!," "The Lorax." "The Butter Battle Book," "Yertle the 
Turtle" and "The Sneeches" all have a political context. "Horton" 



" both advocate for racial tolerance. \ 



"The 



it characters look very similar to later book characters. Some 
trademark Seuss embellishments can also be seen in the cartoons. 

"I learned a lot of things I never knew about Dr. Seuss from the 
lecture. It was very informative," Hipskind said. Many learned Se- 
uss was very ironic in a sense. According to Gendzel, he was a Ger- 
man-American who was pushing to join a war against Germany 
He was also a champion of racial tolerance, and spoke out against 
racism and anti-Semitism. But he was supportive of placing Japa- 
nese-Americans in interment camps following the attack on Pearl 
Harbor. 

The Anthropology Luncheon Series meets every Wednesday 
throughout the semester from 12:00 to 1:00 p.m. It is a lecture se- 
ries, with lectures from students, staff and faculty over various top- 
: government provides free pizza, and the lectures a 



Lorax" preaches the importance of environmental) sm and the "The open to everyone. A list of presenters and topics is available from 
Butter Battle Book" calls for nuclear disarmament. "Yertle the Tur- the Anthropology website, www.i pfw.edu /soca/An throClub/speak- 
tle" is the story of a dictator's rise and fall, although in a much softer ers.htm. 

" branded by "The series gives a chance for those not involved in anthropol- 

of the way ogy, or whatever the topic of the lecture, to team something new and 
interesting," Anthropology Club Vice President Mariah Yager said. 



a dictator' 
form. "The Sneeches' _ 
wearing red stars on their bodies, which 
Hitler branded Jewish people in Nazi Germany. 



Bursar direct deposit 
refund underway 



"liu ng 1,000 refund 



e students who l 

program, the less number of 

checks the office has to print 



swill besecun.-. The 
bursar verifies all accounts with 
the bank before depositing any 



) that the bank can 

said. This cut-off date would 
generally be one to two weeks 
before the beginning of the se- 

"The program is now be- 
ing tested by TouchNet to get it 
ready for use on campus," said 



■riot lis. 



i ut ihe bursar's oftnu 



sapplic 






ii bal- 



a student lias on their; 
it." Students will be able to 
nto my.ipfw and add their 
. insinuation to their ac- 
it. If a credit is due, the 



students won't have ti 
their refunds to be mailed. The 
money will be deposited on a 
specific date and ready for use. 
"Electronic deposit would 
get the funds to the students 



plat 



launch the new 
Summer Session 
to Michalec, the summer ses- 
sion gives the bursar time to do 
their own testing. 

"With the smaller number 
of students, summer session 
provides a good testing time 
to make sure things work out," 
she said. 



the "quality of the publication 
varied from year to year," said 
associate professor and chair 
of the department, Richard 
Ramsey, Ph.D., "It is a matter of 
how much time and energy the 



the publication since it received 
iis initial I I'SGA start up grant 16 
years ago. Ramsey is the chief 



lion is essential and beneficial 
to the portfolio writers and art- 
ists seeking a career in art or 
writing. 

There arc hundreds of lit- 
erary publications in America 
that feature fiction, essays, re- 
views and other an. Literary 
journals ranging in prominence 
from small academic publica- 
tions to magazines like the Ken- 
yon Review or Grama that offer 



substantial payment for work 
they publish. 

Historically, issues of 
Confluence have been about 50 
pages in length. Past journals 
have been composed mostly 
of poetry and artwork, with a 
couple of short fiction pieces. 
Confluence was published bi- 
annualiy with a Fall and Spring 
issue, but is now published in a 
Millie Spring issue. 

While Confluence has 
been mostiy writing, especially 
poetry, "we would like to see an 
increase in visual and graphic 
art in the publication," Ramsey 
said. "Anything that can be 
photographed can be included 
in Confluence, this includes 
theatre sets and ce- 



mitted directly to the English 
department, located at the 
Classroom Medical Building in 



s about submissions ian be 



facilitated by Mary Ann Cain, 
associate professor of English, 
who will be holding 



nting 






mit their work until March 
It can be sent via email to 
\uconJluence2QQS@hotmai 
in with a word document, 
G or TIFF format attach- 
nt. Work may also be sub- 



Many of the readings at this 
event will be from people pub- 
lished in the journal. 

Some professors who 
teach creative writing courses 
in the Spring will also be en- 
couraging students to submit 
work to Confluence, even writ- 
ings they have done for class. 

Confluence is a non-prof- 
it, self-supponing organization 
sponsored by the IPFW depart- 
ment of English and Linguis- 



turns, which can then be elec- 
tronically submitted for free. 

"We are using the software 
that the IRS uses," said Dawn 
Stager, a volunteer for the pro- 
gram. 

While the incoming stu- 
dents and community mem- 



■] pla, 









i doing that r 



bers get free : 

counting students learn how u 

"It's good for students 
to get the experience of doing 
that, working with a client, and 
also processing the return," said 
Keller. 

"It's different when you sit 
down and help somebody else 
do their taxes," he said. 

On the first day of the 
service, room 205B was busy, 
as the volunteers and their cli- 
ents quietly discussed the tax 
returns and worked through 
the program on the computer, 
lohn Wunderlich, a representa- 
tive from the IRS, was present 
to help the volunteers navigate 
the software. 

"It helped me a lot," said 
Andy Niezer, a student who 
took advantage of the program. 



Students were accepted 
on a "first-come, first-served" 
basis, as Keller explained. 

Though one woman was 
found to be ineligible for the 
VITA program, 



fered other 
find 



"Itv 



► REHAB: 

From Page A1 






Attendance at the pro- 



higher than in pervious years, 
according to both Keller and 
the volunteers. Last year, the 
first day of the program saw 
perhaps "three returns all day," 
according to Phillip Ratkos, a 
volunteer who had participated 
in the program the previous 

The VITA program is re- 
stricted to Indiana residents 
whose income is below $35,000 
and whose returns will be un- 
complicated by such things as 
stock trades. Forms supported 
by the program include both 
federal and state forms, 1040EZ, 
1040A and 1040. 

In the future, Keller hopes 
to expand the program to cover 
-resident students who may 



"I'm hoping in future years 
we can establish some special 
training to take care of that," 
said Keller. 

Those who wish to partici- 
pate in the VITA program should 
bring several items when they 
go for assistance. According to 
Keller, the most important item 
to bring is the tax return from 
the previous year. Other items 
needed include a Social Secu- 
rity Card and photo ID for veri- 
fication. "We do have to have 
documentation or else we can't 
put it on the form," said Keller. 

"Since we have a lot of stu- 

students...(they should bring) 
all the other normal necessary 
information," said Keller. 

"If you are in question ol 
anything to bring, bring it," said 

Keller expects attendance 
to increase as the IRS's April 15 
tax-filing deadline approaches. 

"The farther we go, the 
busier we get," said Keller. 









the taxes. However, due to the 
complicated 



sociate dean for Research and 
graduate studies at 1UPUI, said 
the Defense Department's al- 
location will "seed money for 



There a 
branches of rehabilitation 
studies at IUPUI. Much of the 
center's research is done in col- 
laboration with other hospitals, 
schools and businesses across 
the country. Ohio State Univer- 
sity is a primary partner with 
lUPUI's academic research. 

Sothmann said the center's 
initial focus will be "rehabili- 
tation strategies for amputees 
and patients with associated 
trauma." The center will then, 
with help from other institu- 
tions, "track the rehabilitation 
of these patients, and integrate 
them back into a healthy envi- 



havc profoundly ii 
survival rate for injured sol- 
and the diers. 

The Interceptor body s 



have some money to 
with filing relax a little bit. ..I really like that 
aspect" said Keller. 

The program runs Feb. 4, 



Researchers at Duke Uni- 
sity and St. Luke's-Roos- 
"t Hospital, who study n 



the head and torso. But this 
protection doesn't shield a 
soldier's arms and legs, which 
need to be mobile in combat. 
Resulting from the success of 
this protection is a new group 
of casualties, who have severely 
damaged extremities. 

The military's methods of 
pain relief and rehabilitation 



blocks and anesthesia, possess 



Whereas general anesthesia i 
too dangerous for use on se- 
verely injured patients, new re- 
gional anesthesia and continu- 
ous peripheral nerve blocks can 
be used for immediate and safe 
it of injured limbs. The 






ability to redraw these person- 



Defense Department 
find a way to imple 
treatment in the field. 

Long-ter 
rehabilitation is more problem- 
atic. This is why the Defense 
Department has increased sup- 
pon for studies that focus on 
longer term care and rehabilita- 
tion of injured veterans. 



p^3 



WiW 



Bush promotes Social Security plan in Nebraska 



By Joel Gehringer 

The Daily Nebraskan 



(U-W1RE) LINCOLN. 
George W. 
o stage a ~ 

Tothe delight of rr 

i tors, Bush 

;o the city. 

"1 was here with Sen. 

(Chuck) Hagel, and he said, 

'Give them your best fastball,' " 



and then mentioned Governor 
Dave Heineman. 

"I guess you kind of like 
my decision making," Bush said 
to the governor. "I'll be frank 
with you. 1 didn't ask (Mike) 
lohanns to join my Cabinet to 
make you governor, although 
I'm sure you're going to do a 
fine job." 



baseball, and we're certainly 
not here to talk college football, 
if you know what I mean," he 
said. "We're here to talk public 

Visiting Omaha as part of 



First, Bush described the 
problems of Social Security for 
the audience, saying the rising 
life expectancy rate and the de- 
clining number of people 
ing into the system will b 
nipt it by 2042. 



Bush then proposed his 
solution to the problem. 

"1 believe that younger 
workers ought to be able to set 
aside some of their own payroll 



vative" stocks and bonds that 
would have a greater rate of 
return than the Social Security 

"You'll have more money 

he said. "That's an important 
concept." 

allow investors to leave money 
for future generations and, he 
said, his plan would not affect 

After explaining his plan, 
the president sat down and let 
his handpicked panel of four 
Omaha natives and a national 
expert help try to sell his pro- 
gram, showing how it would af- 



fc-ci people (mm different walks 
of life. 

Syl Schieber, a Washing- 
ton, D.C-based Social Security 
expert, commended Bush for 
thinking of future generations. 

"The president doesn't 
have to address this issue," 
Schieber said. "He could let it 
go for another four years and it 
wouldn't he a big deal." 

Rose Davis, u professor at 
Metropolitan Community Col- 



hardships of In 
lives would have been allevi- 
ated if they could have received 
their mother's unused Social 
Security money. 

Mary Mornin, a divorced 
single mother, said she wanted 



ty would still be around for her 
children. 

lerry Rempe, an employee 
of Omaha Steaks, said his 40 1 k- 
relirement plan helped him re- 
alize the benefits of investing 

the president's personal retire- 



"The status quo is unac- 
ceptable to younger workers 
and younger workers under- 



i- changes so Social Seturi stand thin in America," he said. 



of learning" for faculty on cam- 
pus as well as a way of getting 
information. 

The groups addressed in 
the survey include race, ethnic- 
ity, gender, sexual orientation, 
religion, age, accent or dialect, 
national origin, disability and 
social class origin. 



it's always a good idea to find 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



; de- edu and c 



what the student populatiot 
needs," she said. 

Frew said the results o 
the survey could lead to "sig 
nificant change in the way wt 



Erin Frew, director of as- 
t for Academic Affairs 
and a member of the Diversity 
Council, said the council hopes 
the survey will help the univer- 
sity understand where change 
needs ui take place. 

"Before one begins to de- 
signing programs which are 
very expensive, or redesign 
current services and programs, 



sponded. Frew said the target 
is 30 to 40 percent of the IPFW 
student population, or around 
l. nun respondents. 

Frew wanted students to 
know the survey is confiden- 



if there h 
large number of respondents, 
and Frew added they should be 

from all different backgrounds, 

accurately the "campus cli- 



I would just encourage 



. W ttW e v s/0urS,ories -% 



c *minos/Nuest«asl 



Presented in conjunction with 
the Smithsonian Institution's 
Traveling Exhibition, "Our 
Journeys/Our Stories: 
Portraits of Latino 
Achievement" on view at The 
History Center through 
March 13,2005 



Dolores C. Huerla is (he co-founder and first Vice-President Emeritus of 

Ihe United Farm Workers of Americo, AFl-CIO (TIFF). The raalher of 
1 1 children, 1 4 grandchildren, and four greal-arondchildren, Dolores 

has played o major role in the American civil rights movemenl. Dolores 
has received honorary doctorate degrees from: New (allege of Son 

Francisco, 1990, San Ftoncisco Stole University, 1993, S.u.N.lNew Palz 
University, 1999. Aside from currently serving as (he Secretary- 

Treasurer of Ihe United Farm Workers, she is the Vice President for Ihe 
Coalition for Lobar Union Women, the Vice President of ihe California 
AFL-CIO, and is a board member for the Foundation for the Feminist 
Majority which advocates lor political and equal rights for women. 

Dolores HliertO, Cesar Chavez's "most trusted advisor^ 

Tells Her Story at 
IPFW's Classroom Medical 159 

Thursday, Feb. 17th at 7p.m. - Limited seating 




InitedrC 

Art and Education 



•] 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



Join our warehouse team in a fun, friendly environment 

■ Work part-time now/full-time in the summer. 

■ Dirties include order filling. .......,&gt;,. ,,,„,«. 

■ Starting at $7.50/hour. 

United Art and Education • Monday- Friday 9am-5pm • 4413 Airport Expressway 




Campus s 

f* *-* 1 4~k ** *4 ~&gt; »* v 



Calendar 



for February 10-16, 



Great Jeans Give-Away Donation 
Table: ET Lobby. II a.m.-l p.m. 
Donate I hose old jeans :il the back 
of yourcloset and purchase healthy 
snacks from the Student Wellness Peer 
Education group. Leant more about 
Hating Disorder Aw a renew' [-"ducat ion 



Student Organization Leadership 
Development: WU 1 16, noon. For 

information, call 16283. 

Completing the 2005-21106 PAFSA: 

WU 114-116, 6:30 p.m.: also Feb. 16. 
For information, call 16241. 

Athletic Events: Women's Basketball 
vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 6 p.m.; Men' 
Basketball vs. Northern Colorado, 
8 p.m.; both games at the Memorial 



Event for Students with Familic 
Dinner, children's event, and 
workshop, WU Ballroom, 6-8 p.n 



Athletic Event: Men's Volleyball 
vs. Loyola Chicago, GC, 7 p.m. For 
information, call 16646. 

Law School Admission Test (LSAT): 

WU 222, 8 a.m. For information, call 
14153. 

Lunch with an IPFW Scientist: 
"Ack! There's BUG in My Computer!" 
with Professor Gar, Stcllcn; Science 
Central, 1 1:30 a.m.-l p.m. For 

reservations, call 260-424-2400. ext. 



Athletic Event: Men's Volleyball vs 
Mercj hurst. GC, 7 p.m. For informatio 
call 16646. 

Black History Month Events: 

For information, call 16608. 

ML S Gospel Ceh-hratiaii. NF Recital 

Hall, 6 p.m. 

Cupid's Bash, WU Cafeteria, 7 p.m. 



$5 advance w/student ID, $7 at the door. 

13 Concert: Ja// Ensemble Icaliinin; guest 
artist David Baker, NF Recital Hall, 
2:30 p.m.; IPFW students admitted free 
with ID. For information, call 16714. 

14 Eating Disorder Support Group: 
WU 234, 6:30-8:30 p.m. For 
information, call 16647. 

15 Health Screenings: KT lower level, 
1 1:30 a.m.-l p.m. For information, 
call 15748. 

Stop Smoking Support and 
Information Table: KT lower level, 10 
a.m. -noon. For information, call 16647 
or 15748. 

Academic Advising Lunch Talk: "The 
New Face of SOAR for 2005," and 
1 "Registration Molds lor Athletes." WU 

222-224-226, noon- 1:15 p.m. Lunch 
served at 1 1 :45 to the first 40 attendees 
who RSVP tocIevengerd@ipfw.edu. 



Spanish Table: j Venae 
comer con nosotros! (Come eat and talk 
with us), WU Cafeteria, noon; bring a 
sack lunch. For information, call 1 66K l &gt; 
or e-mail confortm@ipfw.edu. 

Write Away on Wednesdays: "How 
to Create Your Thesis, Examine Your 
Evidence, and Prevent Plagiarism by 
Baking a PIE (Point, Information, 
Explanation)," KT G22, noon-1 p.m. 
For information, call 15740. 

Anthropology Luncheon Lecture 
Series: "Emperors and Popes: Rome, the 
Eternal City," Samantha Birk; KT 

G46, noon. For information, call 16272. 

Black History Month Event: Diversity 
Game. WU 222-224-226, noon-1 :30 
p.m. For information, call 16608. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



mmrnmtMMsmm 



The Communicator 



K. t Case* M.#v«jng EdW 



Podium 

Opinions * Editorials • Letters 




Kelly Lynch / klyjKh@jpfwcommunicator.oig 



STAFF EDITORIAL 



Newspapers for Rent 



With the revelation of conservative col- 
umnist Armstrong Williams accepting al- 
most $250,000 in federal money to promote 
the Bush administration, marriage colum- 
nist Michael McManus accepting $10,000 
from the Marriage Savers organization to 
promote them in his column and Maggie 
Gallagher, being involved in a $21,000 con- 
tract to promote Bush's initiative to control 
marriage, one questions in what dark cor- 
ner journalistic ethics have shriveled up and 
died. 

Is this really a violation of those ethics? It 
can be assumed that because they advocat- 
ed similar points of view before, they would 
have supported these causes regardless of 



being paid. Gallagher, for example, received 
federal money in a contract for separate 
work not relating to her column. 

The answer is yes. Gallagher should have 
informed her readers when she supported 
the Bush initiative in her column. Williams 
and McManus should have never accept- 
ed the money at all, or at the very least in- 
formed their readers. The moment they kept 
it a secret, they made a mistake that could 
cost them their reputations. 

The Society of Professional Journalists 
outlines in their code of ethics that journal- 
ists should "(r)efuse gifts, favors, fees, free 
travel and special treatment, and shun sec- 
ondary employment, political involvement, 



public office and service in community or- 
ganizations if they compromise journalistic 
integrity," and "(d)eny favored treatment to 
advertisers and special interests and resist 
their pressure to influence news coverage." 
We at The Communicator by no means 
condone the actions of these columnists, 
but truthfully, our editorial board and mul- 
titude of columnists are somewhat jealous. 
Nobody offered us any money to promote 
certain points of view. Therefore, we'd like to 
be proactive and thank the Indiana state gov- 
ernment for their excellent higher education 
reform. We think you are doing a great job. 
(Send checks to Walb Suite 215, 2101 East 
Coliseumn Blvd. Fort Wayne, IN 46805) 



Work, school, and procrastination 



Casey at Bat 

By Katie Casey 

kecasey@ipfwcommunicator.org 



There 
before midi 
classes, when life becomes a grind. 

Papers have been assigned, classes are n 

full swim;, .iiul [hi' tickle weather (with tlu' sum 
storms and blinding logi dm.", nothing 10 plaiar 
the stressful lime of the year. 

It is about this time that I always work 01 
perfecting my procrastination skills— alter all, i 



a point in every semester, IPFW feels this problem more acutely man 

' after the first few weeks of many other, campuses because of its status as 
"non-traditional "Musi of us haw jobs, and many 
students have families on lop of the responsibili- 
ties ul gome, lo school While the administration 
is quick tu shed the commuter-campus, respon- 
sible and h.irii-working non traditional students 
shouldn't he so quickly dismissed. After all, any 
bias in (avut ol traditional students is un \ n.ibk 
favor of those whose appreciation for higher 



must enjoy it. Or at least that's what I tell myself education is usually around baseline levels, 
when it is nearing midnight and I have yet to be- Looking ahead to midterms, and eve: 



fur- 



work due the 



was putting off 

writing a paper 

I surfing the 1 



ii In an ironic twist we end up 
having to sacrifice school for work 
just in order to be able to pay for 
the classes— classes that we end up 
missing because of work. Jj 



to finals, the 

France really 
does seem to be 
quite far away, 
and it begs the 
question of why 



stow from Reuters that said over 50,000 people a job tf 
in France recently protested tu save then r* hour deal of 
work week. The original idea behind the limit 
J promote employment, but according to 



pie go to col- 
r to earn enough education to find 

e wouldn't mind committing a great 



't working. 

"I don't care why they wanted to lim 
number of hours," 1 thought to myself. ' 
hour work week would be great." 

For whatever other proble 
may find with iln- I retieh, despite the fan that 
the idea of a 35-hour week is a 'socialist legacy. 1 
according to HluumbtT^atin. at least that law al- 
lowed for a life outside of work. 

Here in the States, we seem to have that For- 
mula reversed We make posters with sayings like 



ardice, where the co-workers spend 
with each other than their own families. 

And for what:' Another Id's report, another 
easily-forgotten project? 

And for work wc lorleii evervihing else, if a 
decision must be made — schoolwork holds no 
contest. In an ironic twist, we end up having to 
sacrifice school for work just in order to be able in 
pay for Uie classes— classes ihat we end up miss- 
ing because of work. And so the cycle goes. 



While this is quite helpful, it gives the im- 

[lri'ssionthal universities have liei e In tit- mure 

than factories., creating the middle management 
of tomorrow's generations. Again, we cannot 
seem to tear ourselves away from productivity. 

There is siill something to be said for a bit of 
slacking, for electing lor a nap, or for taking that 
one class you knuw you will never use again. 

After outlining this thought, 1 sat in front 
ol the computer and glanced at the time. A sec- 
ond later I panicked at the single-digit number of 
hours between ilte time and when the paper was 
due, and I asked myselt if I really did believe what 

1 was thinking. 

I thought ahead to the assignments due, 
and ihe troubles the week was sure to bring. But 
then I thought about the fun of the weekend, the 
movie I hail seen and lite musiu 1 had heard. Did 
I regret my slacking now? 

Not for a second. I briefly entertained the 
i of what would happen if people tried to 



Absurdity of FCC galling 



Staff Column 

By Steve Pepple 
spepple@ipfwcommunicator.org 



comedian, full-time political pinhead 
(most of the man's comedy, books and comments 
are pointlessly coarse and insipid) has a point in 
the "seven words you cannot say" monologue 
that he's been doing for about 30 years. 

Cailin's "seven words" roughly goes: Of the 
750,000 words that comprise the English lan- 
guage, society discovered a lone handful of words 
that were the worst. He sarcastically reasons that 
the seven words you cannot say on TV must be 
evil bastards of our language. They are so hor- 
rible and penetrating, according to society, that 
if children are allowed to hear them they will be 
immediately corrupted. 

Carlin is right. The reasons people select 
their morality, especially what is decent, is often 
humorous. For instance, the press conference 
where John Ashcroft required the breasts of a 
statue in background of him to be covered. As 
John Stewart brilliandy noted. Ashcroft should 
not be so worried about covering mammary 
glands, when it's his obscene singing voice that 
needs censoring. 

The idea that bowdlerizing select words and 
images from a bulk of junk culture is achieving 
some high morality or decency is ridiculous. For 
example, is an episode of say "The Jerry Springer 
Show" any more wholesome because it bleeps 
out words and blurs boobs? I think not. 

the whole of mainstream television and 
movies, save gems like "Desperate Housewives," 
are far more offensive — in voyeurism, violence, 
materialism and tastelessness — than any exc- 
lamitive I've ever heard, or body pan I've seen. 

The FCC's most recent crusade to purge the 
airwaves, similar to the one Carlin lamented in 
197S, has brought a spirit of fear to broadcasters. 
Programming is now preemptively edited, and 
producers must constantly second-guess what 
content is appropriate. 



"Family Guy," 



; of the Fox c 
ivas recently altered to cc 
originally shown in a seen 



in an ongoing c 
practices." 

Even World War II history is objectionable. 
Many ABC affiliates pulled their broadcast of the 
movie "Saving Private Ryan," because the FCC 
suggested it would fine stations who aired it. 
Similarly, PBS felt obligated to blur photos from 



i camps shown in a documentary 
e they contained nudity. 
I rarely subscribe to conspiracy theories, 
; absurdity and arbitrarily by which the 



Carlin believes the FCC crackdown is 

only an extension of our fascist government's at- 
tempt lo silence and control the American popu- 
lace through initiatives like the Patriot Act. I can- 
not subscribe to an ill-conceived and half-baked 

Carlin would suggest the FCC's next step will 
be to censor the speech of liberals and naysayers, 
like himself. This idea is self-absorbed and out- 
landish — Cailin's latest book ("When Will Jesus 
Bring The Pork Chops?) was on the best-seller lisi 
imber of weeks. 
• what might the I 

from? The FCC had been under scrutiny 
from some long before "nipplegate" in 2004. Sur- 
prisingly, Michael Powell, appointed by Presidenl 
Bush as Chairman of the FCC, made his chiel 
aim deregulation; broadcasters were pleased by 
this hands-off approach from Powell. He even 
said, "I don't want the government as my nanny, 
I still have never understood why something as 
simple as turning it off is not part of the answer," 
responding to the question of the FCC's role in 
monitoring television. 

The FCC's decision to ease media owner- 
ship limits was a blatant nod to media conglom- 
erates. And Powell and the FCC were embar- 
rassingly called out on it when the U.S. Court ol 
Appeals reversed the FCC's move, indicating the 
FCC lacked logic and evidence in its decision 
This was an enormous setback to Powell, and to 
numerous big media conglomerates, like Viacom 
and Clear Channel, that were salivating at the 
prospect of greater expansion and consolidation 
opportunities. 

While Powell was nursing his wounds, he 
felt pressure from the Bush administration (jusi 
"l administration felt pressure from 



Editorial Policy 



fined in the last year, is irrelevant. The FCC's pose 
on decency is only the result of: a) its allegiance 
to party politics — the need to win the supposed 
culture war, and b) the commission's failure to 
questionable agenda. Now that is indecent. 






The Communicator welcomes tespons 



&gt;e Communicator, rhe o 



n is solely the opinion of its author. 






In for a long haul with Middle East conflict 



As the World Turns 

By Nick Young 
nyoung@ipfwcommunkator.org 



i die Middle I a si Me I i- luishiiin I'm more linn-, dm domestic down 



if Palestinian c; 

This should come as no 
anyone following the process e 
ly closely. This has been a m; 



After years of getting screwed &lt; 



peace talks between Israel and tl 

Ariel Sharon, Prime Minister of Israel, and 
Mahmoud Abbas, the new Palestinian lead- 
er due to the timely (and fortunate) death 
of Yasser Arafat, are continuing to engage in 
peace talks aimed at bringing resolution to 
a conflict that's been raging for years. 

It is indeed encouraging that the Sha- 
ron government is supporting Abbas. Ara- 



n unfit for 
of wild donkeys, yet alone to b 
" e people. The 






recognized this fact, and chose 



to a halt four years 
of bloodshed, in 

lence on both sides. 
With Israel backing 
away from the talks. 
citing the idea that 
Palestinian leaders 
need to take "real" 



Arafat was a man unfit 
for leadership of a pack 

of wild donkeys, yet 
alone to be a spokesman 

for an entire people. }f 



jtionally and 
e would think that 
it's refreshing 



for the needs 



not to deal with him. 

But this is not the time to diatribe 
about my mirth at Arafat's death. 

Rather. I'm encouraged by the fact 
that, for the first time in my life, both sidi 
seem to taking the idea of peace quite s 
riously. Abbas seems to recognize that ne- 
gotiations with Israel are quite necessary to 
the idea of Palestinian rights and statehood. 
And Israel finally seems willing to concede 
that the withdrawal of troops from the oc- 



equation, and that's what's so troubling. It' 
hard to blame Israel for wanting to see solid 
evidence that the Palestinian leadership is 
doing something tangible to stop random 



be undertaken if Israel is to gain any sem- 
blance of respect and cooperation from the 
international community. 

Besides, it's just good business. Work- 
ing with your immediate neighbors can 
only achieve positive results. 

It's interesting, however, that Sharon 
is now conditioning the peace talks. Effec- 
tively, he's stated that Israel won't be back at 
the peace talk table unless the Palestinians 



proverbial wrench is and they are expected (or at least they're 
lachlne. supposed to) leave the Gaza Strip, ['hey are 

both sides of this signs nt life turning t mm that side. 

However, there will be no real prog- 
until both parties can actually sii dnwn 
hammer mil some specific details and 
stop random work together to actually, physically, rc- 
ntially live in solve some pertinent issues. Israel cannot 
It's anybody's keep putting stipulations on the Palestin- 
ian side without creating a rift that can only 

Israel released a statement noting, 
"The prime minister stressed that getting 
into the road map (of peace) will happen 
only after the Palestinians halt terrorist ac- 
For this reason. Israel is understand- livity, dismantle the (lerrorl infrastructures 
ably concerned about the terrorist issue. and carry out governmental reforms." 

However, on the other side of the coin, That's a great statement, and is an 

we have to wonder what kind of message honest statement as well. But how much 
this sends to the Palestinian leadership, do the Palestinians have to prove to the Is- 
lamic logically, i hey slum Id be asking them- raelis before Israel finds its way back to the 
selves, "lust what is enough-' When will the peace process highway? Unless both sides 
Israelis finally say that we're doing some- understand thai concessions must be made 
thing real, and thus work with us here-"' It's hy bntli panics, we could be in for another 
getting close to a no-win situation for the long haul, one that may very well not have 
Palestinians. Abbas has promised to crack a happy ending. 



guess when the next terrorist attack will 

perhaps a beach side bar 
when the nex 
to detonate f 



Relationships: Speak up before it's over 



The Tiger's Pen 

By Anthony Maurer 
tmaurer@ipfwcommunicator.org 



Sometimes in life, situations arise tl 
allow little room for error, and the slight 
lapse in judgment can cripple 



Whether these bonds are as strong as steel, 
or as fragile as a single leaf floating in the 
wind, really doesn't matter. 

It is truly strange to think that people 



; assumed to be permanent break as 
if they were never in existence originally. 
This may transpire with or without the con- 
r party. 



x these bonds 
gard for the 
and compassion 



corporeal means. 

Why, it must be inquired, would anyone 
do such things to another? At what cost is it 
to placate the overwhelming ego that pulls 
at the conscience every waking moment 
throughout the day? 

Perhaps the consequence of such actions 
• creates the illusion of justifying the means. 
The reality is, every action given offensively 
will be received as such. Every attack and 
behavior motivated to undermine only can 
destroy what was built. 



Then what of the time, effort i 

invested? 
i such blatant disre- To put it simply, why would you do 

and invested effort something to offend or hurt someone you 
:ld them together share a bond with and care about? 
in bring down the The answer seems so clear when 

st building. This is removed from the situation and earnestly 
and sobering tru- thinking about it. The person would have 
ild be well advised to be a complete idiot to do something that 
on. shows a conqileie lai k nt logic, and most 

tnd words used to importantly, compassion, 
penetrate another It's truly a travesty to witness so many 

nnot be touched by people and relationships destroyed by 

absolutely unnecessary and trivia! deal- 



I hate to see good things get spoiled by 
peoples' stupid actions. I don't know if it 
would work in every single situation, but 
when it comes to relationships, 1 like to ask 
myself what would happen if he or she died 






Sometimes even if the person with 
i you have a relationship isn't going 
the next day, the things you say and 
a kill them just the same. 



How many limes in our everyday lives 
do we say and do things to other people 
that we wished we hadn't? 
.,-. The problem . is that people like to 
believe that nothing they say or do is going 
to change anything. Whether through an 
overt thought process or the most sublimi- 
nal means, 1 would argue that we all justify 
ourselves by thinking everything will be all 
right. 

fhis false sense ol security is something 
that needs to go. After a certain amount of 
this abuse, even the closest people to you 
will feel distanced. Unfortunately, some of 
these people will leave their presence in 
your life. 



The i 

attended too many funerals where the 
vivors cry their eyes out and proclaim their 
love and affection for the deceased. 

What good do such proclamations do 
when they can't hear you anymore? Such 
things also don't do any service to your 
intentions when they don't want to hear 
you any longer. 

If you have someone you care about 

whom you aren't getting along with as well 

as you've like to, if you have old wounds 

that need to be healed or if you know you 

make things better with simply a kind 



Racing towards 
humanity 

For the Write Reason 



LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Preemptive love-making 

to the national deficit: A good idea? 



Ambushed by a wave of boredom in- 
between classes on a Monday morning, 
I decided to have a sit down with the lat- 
est edition of The Communicator. Picking 
between pages, I couldn't help but roll my 
eyes to their sickly whites after a quick 
read through of Nick Young's latest out- 
ing, "Good Riddance Fidel, sayonara Kim 
Jong- II". 

For those who missed the piece: in a 
nutshell, the author suggests multiple pre- 
emptive invasions after a fictitious 2007 
dismantling of U.S. troops in Iraq, to help 
aid the continued "spread of democracy". 

Now this is just fine and dandy horn a 
shamelessly biased Western standpoint — 
"power to the people," and what have you . . . 
but are multiple preemptive "wars on ter- 
ror" really such a good idea for "the greatest 
country in the world," which {at the time of 
press) has a S7.631 ,926,4 1 5,806.44 deficit? 

Not to be frugal, of course, but at some 
point, we are going to have to pay up to this 
inherited financial disaster. For those of 
you who like choices, there are three ways 



this is going to happen with or without 
a continued American sponsorship of an 
orgy ol freedom across the globe. 

Not that I'm a communist or anything. 
Quite the opposite, I 



: of a Marxist (for all you literal types, 
that's sarcasm). However, we have to be 
realistic. We are not going to be leaving Iraq 
anytime soon. It takes a long time to stabi- 
lize a country coming out of a dictatorship 
(Germany, anyone?) and an occupation 
costs money, lots of money (Iraq has cost 
the United States about S153 billion to 
date.). 

Young's wave of the hat jovialism for 
continued wars, unfortunately embod- 
ies a relatively well-embraced, middle- 
American outlook (which is rather strange 
coming from a conservative administration 
which is somewhat radically veering away 
from it's tied and tried philosophy of "less 
government spending," which completely 
ignores the norms of a capitalist society.) 

Why we've decided to deem ourselves 



3 pay: i 



Hb)r 
t age; and/or c) a little r 

If this is your idea of a good t 



the world's "Freedom Fighters" is trivial 

this particular so-and-so. i 

pened to the good 'ol days of internal 






: for the financially pressed, 
peace-loving citizen of God's only chosen 
way (democracy)! 

Now, 1 know this is about as euphoric a 
dream as gay marriage stateside and not 
likely to happen anytime soon, but what if 
the "spread of democracy" was an interna- 
tional effort. 

How about a world police? Imagine a 
more diplomatic America that had a strong 
and clear focus on foreign policy, that held 
hands with the other (yes. OTHER) pillars 
of the Western world to end the rain of 
oppression that haunts countless doors... 
instead of just going it alone for the hell of 
it (not to get preachy). 

Oh well, you can't always get what you 
want. But with mounting dollars that will 
be burning holes in the pockets of every 
last Tom, Dick, and Jane in the not so dis- 
tant future — perhaps it's dme for the U.S. 
of A. to have a lime bit more selfish out- 
look, as far as cosUy wars go. 



i international sponsorship? 
It's the stuff this land is made of! 1 mean, 
weren't the reelections in Ukraine great? 
The rest of the world got to kick back 



She's right about quilts, 
it doesn't matter that th 
making them in factories 

they always should did 



as I get older. For in- 
stance, there's a couple on mj 
soap in which the man Is black 
and the woman is white. Al- 
though I, of c 



(heir respective races, wher 

show put them together, I 

think to myself, This i; 



interracial couple." I didn't 
attach that label to them untl 
I saw it on a message board 
The posters were making a bij 
deal about it. Some were ap- 
plauding the show for its "bold' 



from a deep s 

pride in herself, her wrilinga 
her people — black people. 

Consciously or unco 
sciously, I have arranged my decision considering the c 
life SO that wherever I go, the servutive snap opera fan bast- 
people there look like me. As a Others thought it was wrong- 
middle class while woman who against (,nd and all that— for E 
grew up in Fort Wayne, works black man and a white womar 
in a department store and is .in mr vice versa} to he portrayec 
Cnglish/wonu-n's studies ma- on television in a romantic ca- 
Jor, I do not find myself in the pacity. 

minority (as far as gender and As Nikki Giovanni woulc 

especially race are concerned] say, it seemed so "retro." 

many situations. It hap- Race is a complicated top 



titular day in Inrt Wayne, Iruli- letting it become a backgruuiit 
Issue, as I have done -is dan 



It happened again when 
we saw Giovanni speak Wednes- 
day; My minority status didn't 



as we arc of others'. If I fall tc 
acknowledge my white major 
ily privilege. I'm unwittingly 
perpetuating an unconsclout 
brand of racism, 

These tensions have beer 

my demure applauding was far brewing for so long that we'n 

spirited than the response paralyzed, stuck In this posi- 

Giovanni was getting from the lion where we can't quite trust 

of the audience. I was in each other but we can't qultt 

absolutely impressed hy remember why. The solution 

so it wasn't my heart that exists in the form of a height 

lacking. It was my soul. I encd consciousness mixed will 

looked around the ballroom a willingness on the part of the 

and said to myself, "Girl, there white majority to relinquish mil 

bout five while people privilege in lavor ol ineaningfu 









Generalization &lt; ,n 
In contrast, the "Brown agent of racism, and I 1 
Sugar" incident had made me ployed it here. Blacks 

inicomlMii.Lblc. I'm slighflyself- 
' i a way that 1 usual 
being "acutely sclf- 



mly minority in the U.S. 
t whites are the only major 



q Generalization 
can be an agent 
of racism, and I've 
employed it here.f } 



ninoritj 

tt*nerul 
l/.ed tht 

tllude anc 
the black; 

while rela- 



would In- 
accurately interpret m 
Perhaps they 



y pres- demonstrate the density of thi- 

would tangled conflict. We know now 

&lt;voman, that race is a biological myth 

fond of If we could accept a 



think that I, ; 

believe 

Taye Diggs because I could not that truth on a universal level 

possibly truly appreciate him. the problem would not be re- 

Maybe I seemed to them like solved because the damage It 

a wannabe— a white girl trying already done and the people an 

to get some "urban" culture by already suffering. Our bchav- 

watching a so-called black film, iors, manners and instinctua 

Wednesday my self-image reactions are ingrained Into out 

was more secure, and 1 didn't psyches. It will take effort anc 

feel like a minority. We were all generations of diluting the rac 

Nikki Giovanni fans, after all. ism inherent in society befort 

I've noticed myself be- we can overcome this partlcu 

coming less and less race-con- larnhsi.uk- inhumanity 



Have something to say? 

Anything you just 
have to respond to? 



Make your voice heard. 



The editorial board of 

The Communicator wants to hear 

from you. 

letters@ipfwcommunicator.org 



of mail to: 

Walb Union, Ste. 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



nl.ttw.Olofwmmmm.lMtnrofft If 



Till G\U\1l/\'l&lt;Ai!&gt;H 



Arts 



Performance • Musk • Fine A 



The problem 
with Houston 



Vance's Views 



It is the ultimate hatilc between e.ood .1111.) evil that inlrigu 
miHimis worldwide. 

On television, it Is the new show "Point Pleasant." In movit 

the liallk- becomes epii when Satan i. mil S.kI n Hussein) rise 

power in the "Soul h Park movie Hut in the real world, we need n 



o they say, his bodyguards were able to stop what is perceived 
by most as suit uk' attempt Si&gt; they took I louston downstairs and 
locked him a In a room by himself. 

Grand Idea there. Let us lot k a suicidal man in a room by him- 
self. Then they were surprised to find Houston eyeless when they 
returned. 

And, of course, the Capitol Records family 
the fact that Houston Is obviously mentally 



blame this on 

. Instead, it is 
that he cut out his own eye In release llie devil within. 
Damn devil, always consuming the souls of our MTV super- 

Inslead, Houston feels that he is nnw 'closer to God." Wow, if 
nly every Kiltie thumper in the world knew that all it took to get 
lose in Grid was 10 gouge out their own eye, the eye-patch outlet 



oget 

And what if Houston is (he devil'-' Now that would really com- 
plicate things. 

And suddenly, my column .mil the M l\ generation has turned 
into a bad episode ol ' Itull'y the Vampire Slayer" It's over the top, 
sick, twisted ami hard m believe, ii lias all I he fixings of a FOX News 
program. 

So maybe [lie ultimate showdown ol uoud and evil has officially 
begun Inside the body of a one-hit-wonder rapper. I guess that it 
is possible if you believe Houston. 

Or maybe, just maybe we are all victims of a ploy by a psychotic. 

Yup, that's probably It. 



r/? M&amp;n 




n with Blow. 



Hip-hop mogol kunis Itlnu v. ill be .it II '1 \\ ne&gt;i Wednesday, Feb. 16intheWalb 
Ballroom. 

Blow will be showing his tllrn. ulut h doi i intent- the beginnings of hip-hop. 
"It is a real good attempt of telling the history ol lap imp through rap starting 
about the time of I'tT I goinuall the w.iy up lo the first couple records of Run DMC," 
said Blow. "The real story is til the pioneers that you never heard of." 
Immediately following the film will be a question and answer sess 
The visit is the most recent aeiivio sponsored by the Student Activities Board. 
Considered one of the original pioneers of rap/hip-hop, Blow was born Kurtis 
Walker in 1959 in Harlem, New York. After working as a break-dancer, Blow moved 
into the DJ circuit on the block -pany and club levels. 

As hts underground respect peaked, Blow was the first rapper to sign with 
label. Mercury Records signed Blow after hearing one of his tracks in 

"That was one o! the must important things about the early days of hip- 
In iji Being the fit si cat to m^h with a major label was monumental," men- 
tioned Blow ivitli happiness ir 



ip still considered underground and non-existent outside of the 
U.S., Blow was the first to get major press in Europe. 

While his own career opened many doors in the music indus- 
try for future rappers, Blow cites the release of Sugar Hill Gang's 
"Rappers' Delight" as the single most important event for rap. 

"When that record came out, it was so incredible. Every car, 
every bus, every train, every radio station was playing this song 
24 hours a day and we soli doni kumv bow many copies it has 
sold," said Blow. "But I know that was the record that actually 



Demand" in I98H His last t tack came in 1999, where h 
m the LEN track "Cold Chillin." Since that time, Blow has "devoted 
i time to telling the real story &lt; if his genre's beginning. 
I lies e people in I he i lulls have more power anil people don't know 



'powers diat be" in the rap world 

know the truth about the origins of rap, but arc distorting it. That also 

plays a role in Blow spreading his message of rap to the best outiet — the 

college crowd. 

"1 have good a 

much intelligent e 



research and know how tr 
Blow currently attends ci 

I. iiinr hingthecareei ol Ii 



Simple 'Sideways' earthy, human tale 



Lire is like a fine » 



Or £ 



t like^ 



k lynch it ipfwcommunicator.org probably peaked and isn't worth 

credos by which lack (Thomas 
Haden Church) and Miles (Paul Giamatti) live by. They are two 
middle-aged buddies, lack is an immature actor, and Miles a 
slightly introverted author. 

The basis of their "odd couple friendship is based on having 
been college room mates Irestiurcn year, which is perhaps the only 



:ertainly the inspiration lor the film's title. 

The pair are road-tripping to California wineries the week of 

lack's wedding. Miles explains that this is lack's big send off, their 



week to kick back, plavgoit. eat gnmi mod and get plastered on fine 
wines. Deep down, lack wants to eet laid, and somehow appropri- 
ate some lovin' to take care of (be steaming kettle that is Miles. 

Giamatti has always pi, i veil the pent up rage loser type and here, 
he gives the role some dignity He and Church flesh out their ste- 
reotypes well, but sometimes, in their acceptable earnesty to get 
points across, they act as if trying to jump to the conclusion of what 
they're feeling before they can actually say it. 

As a simple story, it is no simple lomedv Miles, in a scene where 
he's seen stealing money inmi his senile mother, pauses to take in 
a few family photos. Uc sudden l\ lot get lies taking the 51,000 and 
realize there is more at stake than explained This makes the film a 
human drama colored yvith moments of comedy. 

The pair meet up with various women and the object of Miles's 
long quiet affection. Maya, becomes accessible to him. Both of 
these women look like real people and you may start to realize the 
benefit of having less-famous actors in movies, because with each 
character you can more easily identify. 

Maya (Virgina Madseni delivers probably the best few lines of 
the film, in which she bares her soul and lights a candle in Miles's 



dark, post-divorce closet. She explains her affinity for great wine, 
explaining how it opens her imagination, fuels her appreciation for 
life and its beauty. A good wine takes attention, nurturing; to her 
it is a living thing. Miles's eyes open up as she speaks and the mo- 
ment becomes one ol near seduction. Thankfully, the film, like it 
does most often, doesn't blatantly throw us information and spell 
out conclusions, it lets us think, laugh and care on our own. One 
problem I had with the film, however, is how easily it treats (or 
doesn't treat) infidelity and adultery. Only until a character gets di- 
vorced or another g l is bis ohm- smashed does anyone really realize 
what's wrong with their actions... then again, isn't this just like life? 
While the humor isn't oil the cull, it is curious and unique. A 
verbal fight between the two friends is happily interrupted as lack 



s impatient golfers, and t\ 
ings back from a big, naked to 
bedded for the night. 

Sideways is a small, simple n 
earthy, real, goofy and si 









's belong- 



/-truck driver, whose wife he had 



i fact, it is indeed much like 
/ Holiday 6, 931 Northcresl 



Basketball film 'coaches' take on 
new meanings and old cliches 



By Dan Vance 



school basketball coach, a* 
takes over the head duties a 
inner city school. 



Ken Carter (Samuel L 
lackson) is a successful local 
businessman in Richmond, 
California and former star of 
thetown's high school basket- 
ball team. Now, the losing-re- 
cord Richmond High Oilers 
only [ 



letes— maintain a 2.3 GPA, at- 
tend every class and sit in front 
and wear a tie on game day — 



good deal of national a 



Thomas Carter. 

"Coach Carter" takes les- 
sons of teamwork to another 
level with the philosophy of "if 
one player struggle, the whole 
team struggles... if one player 
triumphs, the whole team tri- 

But the message could not 
be as loud, clear and profound 
without a talented actor taking 



) the film game. 

A solid portion of the non- 
basketball storyline is centered 
on Kenyon Stone (Rob Brown), 
the confused soon-to-be father 
and his girlfriend Kyra (R&amp;B 
singer Ashanti). 

For Brown's character, the 
basketball side is just the accent 
to the story of his life. 

Another strong individual 
story is devoted to Timo Cruz 
(Rick Gonzalez) 









s down the program in the 



All movies are full of cli- 
ches. Sometimes they are bad 
and sometimes they are good. 
But in "Coach Carter." cliches 
are everything. 

So many things making up 
this movie seem so clichCd that 
it is hard to stop and realize that 



grosses and the audie 
thrown into the storylines of 
several of the players' lives, 
lackson is the only constant. 

The movie is like a mini- 
series focusing In many differ- 
ent directions with one cen- 
terpiece. That centerpiece is 
lackson. 

To Jackson's credit, he 
does not steal the show, instead 
leaving it up to a plethora of 



on a basketball court. Gonza- 
lez's story starts off slow, but 
helps develop the movie's emo- 

The strong acting by Gon- 
zalez not only makes the movie, 
it helps make some of the char- 

This 

and biographical 

failed to do in the last 10 years; 

it tugs at your emotions. 

You feel what the players 
on the Richmond High School 



lfeel.' 



S .lIlllONl 



taken inside the i 

As a basketball film, 
"Coach Carter" is credible, but 
not brilliant. But as a drama, 
the way it was meant to be re- 
ceived, "Coach Carter" is this 



IPFW Jazz Ensemble features 
jazz legend David Baker 

IPFW News Services ■HH 



Indiana Living Legend Da- 
vid Baker will perform with the 
IPFW Jazz Ensemble on Sunday, 
Feb. 13 in Neff Recital Hall at 
2:30 p.m. Baker, a trombonist, 
cellist, and composer, is a dis- 
tinguished professor of music 
and chair of the Department of 
Jazz Studies at IU Bloomington. 

Baker's honors include 
nominations for the Pulitzer 
Prize and the Grammy Award, 
and Down Beat magazine's New 
Star Award, the Jazz Education 
Hall of Fame Award, the Nation- 
al Association of )azz Educators 

Hall of Fame Award and 
the National Endowment for 
the Arts American Jazz Masters 
Award. In 2001, he was desig- 
nated an Indiana Living Legend 
by the Indiana Historical Soci- 

To listen to a two part 

as he discusses his early musi- 
cal influences and training, his 
years at the IU School of Music 
in Bloomington and the his- 
tory of the jazz scene in Indiana 
"' jazz radio host Joe 




Bourne, go t 



n Sunday, February 13 it 



uhomep- Neff Recital Hall. Admission for 



sand $1.00 for all 



all the departmi 
at 260-481-6714 c 
ipjw.edu/vpa . 



Anatomy of an Epic: Bad movies vs. good films 



State of the Arts 



I miss real movies. lrue films, ['hey call 'em motion pictures. 
Sometimes ihey become epic I leel as ii films these days are just 
the result of a marketing ploy, and like ,ill venues that are carved 
out for the sake of lash in Mux. lilm has been plundered for many 
of its riches. 

It's all about the box office. People don't measure a film's 
worth by anything other than how many people spend money 
on it. Granted, movie making is a business, bin it looks like ihe 
money is now the rejoins; reason, il not inspiration, for many of 
the films that grace our multiplexes. 1 he battle between art and 
commerce has been waged and both sides have gone off to lick 
their wounds, having discovered they can co-exist, but not in the 
same production. 

Alas, how does one define an epic lilm? lis greatness cannot 
lipulated into being; it shouldn't be sold as being 



Look at "Star Wars," The first trilogy was a smash. It still is a 

smash, but the new trilogy, with ilie much anticipated "Episode 
III" coming this su mini' r. has been a bummer for many fans. Sure. 
the director can make up whole new worlds, new creatures and 
spaceships as far as the eye can see. but are we truly entertained 
'-'- "-&gt; dialogue anil character development:' Not always. 



Has film become so imnmcrnali/cd thai any attempt at true 
sin cess. Iioih spinuialU ami monetarily, haw In he oft ihe-wall. 
crazy and thus oddly unique? Do we have to rely on art films to 
get good movies? 

found that I am not alone when I siare blankly at my col- 



For"l 



a film. 



I Ol I, 



s and DVDs. So many lo chose from, but v 



■Ulial will s 



?Dolv 






• him. made by people who truly t 






It should also be believed in by its audiences.' 
the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy, but 1 have to feign interest in it 
whenever it's mentioned. All I ever hear is "The battle scenes 
are awesome, you'd like it," as if the comment about my affinity 
for war scenes is enough lo get me to sit through seven hours of 
a fairy tale. If the special effects make the movie kick-ass that 
doesn't mean it does. Special effects, giant set pieces, etc.. don't 
make for a GREAT film, but a lot of people think they do. 



tools tur buying it 

When art and commerce are able to call a truce a 
gether, perhaps it is this a unique interlope that cm 
to be bom. 

A struggling director with a darling script finds a 
ing to bet big to win bigger. 1 be director stays tl 
f through. "" "" 

ntcrtainedl. 

The big win at the box office doesn't always come right away. 
"Shawshank Hedempiiun" is one nl our more amazing films ami 
it took a network like TNT to re-run it 100 limes before anyone 
noticed it. And now the entire world has embraced it and loved 
it. years after its release. 

Where h 
lug euivagan/as only t 



enforce my beliefs? 
I've found that ft 
just flipping to a cei 
ing and Inspiring. 



Films 
DVDs evt 



ihat I recall being both entertain- 
i "American beauty," lor instance, 
from "I he Good, the Hail, and the Ugly" suffices. 



iescreenTVs and sm. round sound, perhaps the market 
is not in their initial release, but in the release to the 

m DVD, which may explain why so many DVDs are said 

special features" to enhani e their value to the consum- 
many of these special leatures are a waste of time, tacky 

that repetitively replace anything that could have pos- 



sibly been 

We want to be blown away in our livii 
potato chips and leather, and thus, the 



e theater is quietly asked 



) don't realize whnl 




Pickiri and a singiri 



It must be cliche these days to refer to events in Fort Wayne 
as being the result of "forward thinking," or having the 
appearance of something to cause an onlooker to remark, 
"This doesn't look like Fort Wayne," but such comments were 
audible at the Flat Pick Music Revue on Saturday night. 

The Desoto building housed the musical event, showcasing 
local artists jamming to Americana, rock and folk hits new, 
old and original as Mike Conley with violinist Marty Spriggle, 
Ken Bantz, the Matthew Sturm Band, John Minton (pictured 
at left) and the Possum Trot Orchestra and Doods &amp; Kelly 
and Go Dog Go performed. 



Video still by Kelly Lynch / klynch@ipfwcommunicator.ora 




The Communicator 



Softball 



A Preview of the 2005 Season 



Successful season depends on pitching 



b of the load for 
Mastodons.Outfielder Miranda 
Ditton is set to make the biggest 



After slugging through u 10-31-1 record last season, 
head coach Ki-iili I isher made it .1 print it\ (u recruit a mound 

presence lh.it will hep (he Mastodons 111 more games this 
season, and give the nl lei ise.H li.iinrliMlnivli.il il does best, 

"It was obvious last season that we did not have die 
pitihing we needed." I isher said. "Our b.iis struggled .11 



the mnund." 

With the lone returning e\pcricnred pitcher being 
junior Beth Harmon, llie rotation will he short on experi- 
loaded 

Fellow freshman Natalie l lark had a microscopic 
0.97 URA in 2003 at Franklin Central High School and was 
an all conference selection het jmiinr and senior seasons. 
Freshman Kntv I tliott will also see significant action on the 

mound, bin perhaps the Mastodons mo&gt;i ,iu pli^inl 

young ,nm, heshman kalie Aspegren, will mnsi likely sit 
mil her lirsl season tine Hi illness Aspegien was 11, lined llie 
i'00.1 ( olnrado State htcher o! the Vear at Wheal Itidgc High 

School. 

"Our pitching is young, but Ihey have die ability," 



d wasanall-conlcreneoselcc 
Inficlder Ty Lambert 



(Beth Flurmon) is going to have ti 
under her whig and help them adjusi 
Offensively, ihe Masiudons are a b 
junior lei ma beach v, who led ll 



a few of ihe girls 
e college game." 
ire experienced, 



at Ihe plate h\ several nlliei ofleusive threats. 

Senior Tiemi Green, one ol three seniors on the 2005 
squad, will look 10 improve 00 her hesl season as, 1 M.cslodon 



Heather UeVore and sophoi 

and Angela Hoivohoor aie the oilier two seniors. 

"1 think we have iiopnned in oearh every category this 
season,' (.recti said. " Ihere jusi seems to he more deternii 




for sure," Fisher said, "ft mJgllt 
take awhile for us to gel, but 
the girls are coming along even 
day." This season's schedule 
is none too kind to I 
Mastodons traveled to Hawaii 
season in the I lawaii I'aradisc t lassie. 

The team finished 1-4 during 
1I1, a including games against ll" 1 - 
I5' h -ranked Washington. IPFW now 
beiueen Rami's I inline, spring I'reak 
March, the Mastodons will travel 
dames in Orlando. 

"I do not mind playing really good 
Green said. "I think it is the best way for us 
we can do and what we need to work on." 

Other highlights on the schedule this 
a trip 10 Bloomington lor the Indiana " 

re winnable," 1 
said. "And also some games that are really going to lie 
tough on US. We just have 10 light through those games 
and leam as much as we can from them." 

WiUi the youth and 
IPFW might go through soon- growing pains early in the 

Come springtim 

on all cylinders. 

Expect a more respectable record 

an ouiside chance at a .".00 record. 



Foul trouble cost women 
contest against Bears 

■ Northern Colorado scores 34 from the free-throw line making 
the difference in the game against IPFW Sunday. 



Northern ( olorado convened i4-ol-)(&gt; free 
throws to rake the "super" out of the women's 
basketball team's Sunday. 

The Mastodons fell to their fellow indepen- 



was called for ; 
later, after a foul 

Patterson was hit with a technical foul 
Free throws by Flavin at 12:26 

lead to 21. 

Then, it was IPFW's turn to m 

hack Nicely hit a three pointer wit 1 



ii 



led hy Kayki Flavin's 17 
points Other Northern 
Colorado players in 
double figures were 
liailev Dillon with 11 
and Kirsten Van Orden 
with 10. 

IPFW took off early 
in the first half, jumping 
out to a 14-1 lead. 

Freshman standout 
lohnna Lewis- Carlisle 

tl down two three -pointers 



Despite good rotation 
off the bench, four 

Mastodon players were 
in the game for 30 
minutes or more. «, 



Clutch free throws 
from Ashley Johnson 
and Bibbs, along with 

Lewis-Carlisle got the 
Mastodons as close at 



clinched the ' 
The Mastodons did get closer than nine in 
5. despite matching the Bears' 



first five 
facilitate the lead. the closing 

le finished with 14 points and five 41 point half. 

Nicely scored 13 points in the outing, taking 



early ll'FW foul trouble Verea Uihbs picked up 
two first half fouls while Hilary OGinnell had 
three. O'Connell would later foul out. 

Despite good rotation off the bench, four 
Mastodon players were in the game for 30 min- 



senior to reach 1,000-point mark for hen 

She currently sits tenth on the all nine list 

for IPFW. 

Bibbs led the Mastodons with 18 points and 



e rebounds. Lewis-Carlisle added 1 
The freshman Lewis-Carlisle 
i stronger shooting second h; 






Meanwhile, ihe Hears played 13 players, 

- - single player in the game more than Mastodons. 

However, the t 
cent from the held on the afternoon." 

IPFW will take to the court against thi 
Thursday as they host Wisconsin-Milwaukee a 



Danielle Hagen she played for 28 

ABeat cornel lack was culunnaied with 2.V) 
in the lirsl half when Melanie Drangmeister 



i onU averaged 32 per- 



Mens basketball drops final two 
games in six game road swing 



The IPFW mens basketball team fell to 4-19 
on the season after dropping the final two con- 
tests ot ilssi\-game road trip this past week. The 
Mastodons lost to I'evas Ats-M ( orpus Uiristi. 7li- 
61 and Eastern Michigan, 74-54. 

Despite losing by 15 and 20 points, IPFW 
held close lor the majority of both games until 
their legs gave out in the final minutes. 

The Mastodons played with a shallow bench 
in both games and statistics proved it. IPFW's 
bench scored |tisi It, points while I lie opponents' 

had 52. 

At Texas A&amp;M Corpus Christi. the Mastodons 
trailed by just five points at the hall courtesy of 
hot three-point shooting. 

The t 

attempts in the second half, the 

hitting only 38.5 percent of its field goals. 

Corpus Christi was superb all game long, 
knocking down 60 percent of its shots. 

David Simon logged 38 minutes. Beau Bauer 
35 and Quintin Carouihers 32. Justin Hawkins 
and Jason Malone provided little spark off the 
bench, giving IPFW nme points in a combined 
32 minutes. 

Charles Campbell plami eighi minutes but 



rebounds and t 



on four of eight three-point shooting. 

At Eastern Michigan, IPFW trailed by ont 
point at the 8:25 mark in the first half, but thi 
Bagles went on an 11-0 run and finished the firs 
half with a 10-point lead. 

lust when the game looked like it was start 
l heavily in favor of the Eagles in thi 



ingti 

second half. IPFW v 
within three, 49-46. 

rn Michigan called a 






IPFW v 

scoring just eight points in the final 11:49. 

Simon lead the Mastodons with 19 points 
si\ blocks anil five rebounds. 

But he also committed five turnovers 
Quintin Carouthers was the only other IPFV 
player in double-figures. He had 12 points 
Bauer and Campbell, two of the team's bes 
three-point shooters, connected on a combinei 
two of 11 from behind the arc. Bauer fjnishei 
with eight points and seven rebounds. Campbel 
had five paints. 

IPFW has been without forward Quintit 
Butler for the past U air games He returned honn 
to South Carolina for a family emergency. Guan 
Byron Malone has started in his place, averagin; 
3.25 points and -!._"i assisis. but he has commit 
ted 14 turnovers, Zeljko Egeric played the fina 
minute of the Eastern Michigan game in relief O 
Simon. Fgeni had missed ihe (last several game 
because of a dead) in the family. 

The Mastodons host Northern Coloradr 
on Thursday, Feb. 10 at 8 p.m. at the Memoria 
Coliseum. 



n open three ii 






the Horizon League tt 



Mastodons scoreless in the final 4 



ling the will be the opening end of a double-header with 



ft 

NICLEY (10) 



Countdown t ol y UUU 

IPFW senior guard Courtney Nicley has scored 969 
points in her career as a Mastodon. She currently has 
a career average of 9.8 points per game. 

31 98 348 

points to go games played shots made 




We Do Mondays 
Like No Place EE$e! 



Enjoy a double 
order of fajiias 
(enough for iwo) 
for jusf dl! 
And 10 oz,. original Top Shelf and 
Caribbean Margariias are only $2.* 

chijik |g) 

iGR I LL^r&amp; BAR) ^^^ 
For* Wayne • 317 E. Coliseum Blvd. ■ 471-2979 




ESI 



Lewis-Carlisle a big presence at 5-f oot-6 



3 date, but is steadily climbing ti 
tistical categories she currently lc;ids die (earn in shots made in 
regular field goals and three pointers as well. 

Her per-game-puints average of 10.2 is tied with Ashley Johnson 
for the best on the team. She is also the main pilfer on the team, 
also sitting atop ilun category with &lt; A. Lewis-Carlisle has racked 
up 193 points on ihe season .is ol Feb. 6, which is just 10 points 



scorer in five of the Mastodons' ; 
scores 127,26 and 19) a 

The Lexington, Kentucky native was in the Ohio and 
Kentucky All-Star game and was also named Mi-Lexington 

and Kentucky All-Mate honorable mention. She was also team 
MVP and All District first- Team her senior year. 

Lewis-Carlisle played with a strong group of girls who had 
shared the court since the eighth grade. She had become more 



she was an upperclassman this also was given to her as another 
obstacle in her search for ,i college tu become her new home. 

IPFW women's basketball assistant coach Alan Buck first con- 
tacted Lewis-Carlisle bin k discovered her at a camp called "Blue 
Chip" in Louisville. Also recruited out of the camp was fellow 
freshman, ti-fi&gt;m-l forward Natalie Roberts. 

Unlike some of her friends from high school who attended 
larger colleges, she decided to make the journey north to IPFW. 



Carlisle added. 

Lewis-Carlisle has not looked back since signing on as a 
Mastodon. "I don't regret loming hen- I like it here. The girls are 
real nice, like a family." Heitig so far away from home, she has 
found a new "family outside ;t family in her teammates here in 
Fort Wayne. 

Once she got here, one of Lewis- Carlisle's primary goals was 
to get into the starting rotation. To date, she has started in three 
games and looks to till the starting role much more in games to 



She attests that the team is a very hard-working squad, and 
deserves better than their record would suggest (2-1B). 

Making the transition to Division I has caused changes in 



s about college basketball v 

mail. "When I started getting letter' 

o go play basketball. I was like, 'I t 






3 school for free, and 
play basketball,'" she , 

Unlike some student-athletes, Lewis-Carlisle did not have 
a specific place in mind that she wanted to attend. Louisville 
seemed to be a good choice because it was close to home, but she 
also wanted a team that had potential and could go somewhere. 



court. It also molded her to develop ; 
instead of just slashing to the hole as she di 
Confidence is paramount lo the young s 
boost the moral of her squad late in the s 



iter mid-range shot, 
in high school. 
it, who is working to 



o overshoot in her search for a IPFW." 



1 the IPFW athletics website, associate head 
ach Chris Paul commented. "As the year has gone on, lohnna 
s started to figure out what college basketball is all about. We 
■ very fortunate to have a player of Johnna's ability here at 












form, her 
that puts i 



l l.ewis-t arlisle has heen given the o|ipinnnnn K 
an i lo be part ol helping my team win. and win a 



And the next head coach is? 



Cup of J 

By Justin Kenny 
jkenny@ipfwc&lt; 



Since the firing of IPFW men's basket- 
ball head coach Doug Noll, rumors have 
swirled involving several different names 
in connection with the position. Athletic 
Director Mark Pope has declined to com- 
ment on any names in particular, but It is 
known that Pope has been contacted by 
several dozen potential suitors. Pope has 
also been busily working the phones trying 
to set up interviews and meet-and-greets 
with some of the frontrunners. Some of the 
names that have been mentioned include: 

Dane Fife, Administrative Assistant, 
Indiana University men's basketball. 

Why: Fife was an integral part of the 
Hoosiers' run to the national champion- 
ship game in 2002. His tenacious defense 
and leadership led a young IU squad to 
within one win of its sixth national title. 
In 2003, he became a graduate assistant 
under head coach Mike Davis. His duties at 
Indiana include video breakdown of oppo- 
nents and underclassmen recruiting. Fife 
would most likely bring aboard his father 



ball coach and athletic director at Clarkston 
High School in Clarkston, Michigan. Fife 
would put butts in the seats at the Memorial 
Coliseum due to his IU past. Fort Wayne 
overall is an Indiana Hoosier town, so you 
can bet many would come out to see Fife in 
his head coaching debut. 

Why not: Pope stated at the press confer- 
ence after the firing of Noll that he wanted 
to get a coach that has had coaching suc- 
cess at the Division I level. Fife has never 
even been an official assistant coach, let 
alone a head coach at the D-I level. Fife is 
in his mid-20s; can college athletes look 
upon him as a serious coach when just 
three seasons ago he was in their same 
exact position? 

Fife will no doubt make a good head 
coach in the future, but he needs to go the 



too big of a jump at this time. 

Cuonzo Martin, Assistant Coach, Purdue 
University basketball 

Why: Martin is in his fifth season on 
the Purdue coaching staff, learning from 
perhaps the best coach in the nation when 
it comes to getting the most out of his play- 
ers in Gene Keady. If Martin absorbed any 
of that talent from Keady, that would come 
in handy at IPFW, which is short on tal- 
ent compared to many other D-I schools. 
Martin was a member of the Boilermakers 
from 1991 to 1995 and is currently ranked 
ll" 1 on the all-time Purdue scoring list. In 
Martin's four years on the floor at Purdue, 
the Boilermakers were 90-37. Martin also 
played four years in the NBA after gradual- 



lines, five si 

for a Big Ten school. 

Why not: Again, the lack of head coach- 
ing experience is a big negative on Martin's 
resume. If he would come to IPFW. he 
would have to put together a very talented 
coaching staff to make up for his lack of 
head coaching experience. Also, Martin 
yvould be well received in Fort Wayne, 
where there are many Purdue fans, but the 
output of support would be slightly less 
than if Fife was named coach. 

Joe Pechota, Interim Head Coach, IPFW 

Why: It is easy to see that Pechota's style 

and attitude have changed the outlook of 

the players on the Mastodons' roster this 

While IPFW has won just one game since 
Pechota took over, you can easily see the 
change of energy on the floor. Pechota is a 



passionately. His use of football equipment 
to help the Mastodons' rebounding was 
genius. 

Why not: While Pechota has brought 

I I 

to- 

.- he took o 
leftover from the Noll era and might n 
feel entirely comfortable staying with t 



program, although I do not believe this is 
the case. Even so, Pope might want to go 
in a different direction, instead of choosing 
an assistant coach brought in by Noll. 

Rex Wallers, Valparaiso assistant coach, 
and Todd Howard, IUPUI assistant coach 

Why. Either of these could be just what 
IPFW needs. Both have immense experi- 
the D-I level both as players \ 



of the college game. Walters is a gradu- 
ate of the University of Kansas where he 
played under Roy Williams and also has 
worked with Pat Riley and Larry Brown. 
He is in his first year as an assistant coach, 
but played professionally for over 10 years. 
Howard would be a huge catch also. He is 



tied mid-major ; 
at IPFW. 

Why not: While I believe I 
IPFW administration would 
have either of these coaches, i 
some selling on Pope's end t 



swill 



coach. It is all a matter of convincing one of 
the two that he is the right man for the job. 

Dean Pantazzi, Dean of Sports, WPTA 
21AJive 

Why: Because the Bean-FUhrer of sports 
would be a perfect choice! WPTA always 
shows those commercials that proclaim 
him as the know-it-all of everything involv- 
ing Northeast Indiana sports, allow him to 
prove it by leading IPFW to victory! 

Why not: As in all dictatorships, Fuhrer 
Pantazzi will most likely overthrow or elim- 
inate all of his competitors, forcing Pope 
to get rid of Pantazzi as soon as possible or 
risk being overthrown in a blitzkrieg-like 



Sports Calenda 

2/9/2005 — 2/16/2005 



lar 



Softball: 



Thursday, Feb. 3 

vs. Oregon 

L, 14-0-5 innings 

vs. Hawaii 

L, 8-0-5 innings 

Friday, Feb. 4 

vs. Washington 

L, 11-0-5 innings 

Saturday, Feb. 5 

vs. Jacksonville 

L, 2-1 

Sunday, Feb. 6 

vs. Jacksonville 

W, 9-6 

Men's Basketball: 

Sunday, Feb. 6 

@ Eastern Michigan 

L, 74-54 

Thursday, Feb. 10 

NORTHERN COLORADO, 8:00 PM 



Women's Basketball: 

Sunday, Feb. 6 

NORTHERN COLORADO 

L, 78-65 

Thursday, Feb. 10 

WISCONSIN-MILWAUKEE 
@ Memorial Coliseum, 6:00 PM 

Men's Volleyball: 



Friday, Feb. 11 

LOYOLA CHICAGO, 7:00 PM 

Saturday, Feb 12 

MERCYHURST, 7:00 PM 



Men's Tennis: 



Sunday, Feb. 13 

@ Butler, 3:00 PM 



Home game brings high hopes for Mastodons 



In All Directions 



h |ue Pechota. "We have had 



It isahomecoming that they definitely both need. This Ihursday, 
eb. lO.hoth the men's and women's li.i-.keih, ill learns will take the 
ourt at the Memorial Coliseum. 

They will enter their games a combined 6-37. 



i wraps up and becomes more crucial. The double- 
header will stan with the women at 6:00 p.m. 

Women's head coach Bruce Patterson will bring his team to 
the Coliseum fresh off a disappointing loss to Northern Colorado, 
lohnna Lewis-Carlisle is playing some of her best basketball of the 
season and has become another perfect accent for the inside-out- 
side game of Verea Bibbs and Courtney Nicely. 

In last Sunday's loss, Patterson found a good depth in his bench, 
playing 11 different girls. While each playing less than 10 minutes 
a piece, juniors Geneva Murdock and Kelly Boyd and freshman 
Lindsey Bayer and N.mlie Huberts proved important as roleplay- 






e from O'Brien, who is also the leading s&lt; 






■ 1 5 less chances to shoot the basketball v 



and Nichole Drummond and c 



Luckily for IPFW, they have a multi-guard assault to counter 
O'Brien. In the starting lineup alone, Lewis-Carlisle, Nicely and 
Ashley Johnson will all provide a strong defense. Sophomore Molly 
Martin can also provide a smothering defensive attack off the 
bench, as seen against Northern Colorado. 

Shutting down O'Brien will force the Panthers to look towards 
Ruff, who is averaging just under seven rebounds on the year. If 
Ruff becomes a valid option, expect to see Murdock provide post 
help off the bench. 

At 8:00 p.m., the men will take the court in hopes of recapturing 
the winning game scheme. 

On a positive note, senior center David Simon has recaptured 
his magical touch during the road swing. Though his rebounding 
is still down (5.5 per game over the last six contests). Simon has 
averaged 17 points per game since the Mastodons last played at 

In the absence of junior forward Quintin Buder (personal 
issues), other players have stepped up in rebounding work. Guard 
Beau Bauer had a team-high seven in Sunday's loss to Eastern 
Michigan, lustin Hawkins had five in the same game. 

Simon's hopes of upping his rebounding work may be growing 
heading into Thursday's game with Northern Colorado. Starting 
in the post for the Bears are 6-foot-9 red-shin freshman Kirk 
Archibeque and 6-foot-7 fames Randle. 

Archibeque is pulling down team high 5.6 rebounds per game, 
while Randle is only averaging :i.9 in his senior season. 



ze advantage on 
d Sean Nolen are 
t respectively. IPFW may look to counter with 
bigger guards in Ouintin ( arouthcrs and lasnn Malone. However. 
keeping the defensive spei i.ilist Hymn Mali me on the court would 
be a smart option too as Kline is averaging 2.5 turnovers pei 

■"They have a pretty good ball club. They are highly competitive 
and have three guards that I am impressed with.'' said Pechota. 

On a side note, Northern ( oloradu docs possess one of the 
best names in college basketball with bench guard Thanasi 

r,i 1 1, iginkikopoulos. 



y four of their finals) 
at the Coliseum. 

"It is imperative 
come out with intensity ana 
defend our house." concluded 

Notes: Quintin Butler will 
return to the Mastodon lineup 
on Thursday. The junior trans- 
fer has not played since Jan. 22. 
Andrew Bourne is still out of 
the lineup with an injury. 



nnnsnsm 




Till' G XMMUNICATOR 



Sports 



Men's volleyball climbs over .500 mark 



By Anthony Maurer 



The IPI-'W men's I'ulk'vll.ilJ U.irrl pkki'tl up 
iwii important wins ihis p;isi week. Modi were 
(in llii' mild, ,ind linlM win- againM MIVA oppo- 
nents. The wins improve ll'l-W's record to 4-3 
iniT.ill.ind .'! 1 in ilii.'Miilwt.'sU'rii linen oik ■|;i,irc 
Volleyhall Association conference. 



'ematch against Findlay from last week- 



, put away the Houdeshell Court 
home (earn after four games (3-1). The Oiler's 
lone game win was a 30-28 hiccup in (he third 



. The conference sirt-u h. 



2. On a six-game IPFW sits in fourth behind a three-way tie for first 
Army is currently place. Loyola, Ohio State and Lews all are tied for 
tough games left in the cam- first place at the moment. They are also all teams 




vith 17 kills, four digs 
ana seven block assists, fellow 
senior Mitch Dreisbach chipped in 
11 more kills on the night. Mike 
H.inilnlpli had 40 assists for the 
Mastodons, leading the team in 
that category. 

C.J. Macias again led the- Oilers 
in a valiant attempt with 30 kills 
.mcl si\ digv lint D/iczkowski also 
added \2 tills, five digs and a block 
in the match. Chris Keen led the 
Oilers in assists with 59. 

The second straight loss to IPFW 
drops conference opponent I i in Hay 
to 5-4 overall and a sia^crine, it- 1 
in the MIVA. It has also dropped 
I mdlav below IPFW on the MIVA 
landings l-indlay is 



n victory in the match. The third g. 
the Mastodons the inspiradon that they n 
stomping the Hawks 30-16. 

"i game saw Quincy fight I 



around this time, finishing the task with a 15-9 
i'm Lunation point. 

IPFW's seniors Zbyszewski and Dreisbach 
again led their squad to victory. Zbyszewski 
smacked down a commanding 28 kills and 

i digs in the match. 
Junior Serdar Sikca also had 1 1 kills to go 
long with his team leading four block solos and 
ve assists. Randolph also got on the radar with 
is 52 assists, three block solos and one block 



I (I H\an had 14. and loe Caruso and Jon Moreno 



SERVICE: Junior setter Mike Randolph serves up 

a shot in a Jaunary 28 loss to Lewis. Randolph 

had three service aces in last week's two road 

games at Quincy and Findlay. 



MIVA Standings as of Feb. 6, 2005 



Conference 



Win Loss Pet 



I.Loyola 
Ohio State 
Lewis 

4. IPFW 

5. Mercyhurst 

6. Findlay 
Ball State 
Quincy 



1.000 
1.000 
1.000 
0.750 
0.600 
0.000 
0.000 
0.000 

o.ooo 



Win Loss Pet 




7 p.m. Mercyhurst is the t« 
in die standings, and will end IPFW's six-game 
ch on Saturday. The match is 



Mid -Season Report 

After seven matches Zbyszewski leads the 
team in kills with 139. Sikca is second with 
91 and Josh Stewart is diird with 57. Mike 
Hamiolph is the team's leading set assist man 
with 331. He also leads the team with 13 service 
aces. Zbyszewski is second with 11 service aces 
and Brock Urich is third with six. 

Despite fighting back hard and pulling itself 
to a winning record, IPFW is not leading its 
opponents in all categories. The Mastodons are 
trailing their opposition in kills (400-488), set 
assists (370-475) and digs (306-326). 

They are leading block solos 21-11, block 
assists 119-98, total blocks 80.5-60 and average 
blocks per game 2.5- 1 .9. They also lead in attack 
percentage (.271 -.262) and service percentage 
(.882-.816). 

Another statistic that speaks for IPFW's per- 
formance to date is the errors category. The 
Mastodons have fewer errors when compared 
o their opponents in a couple major categories. 



of 28 to 13 by its opponents. But, IPFW has done 
so with 21 more attempts and 20.5 more suc- 
cessful blocks. 

With the season just overa quarter of the way 
finished, IPFW is emerging as a valid contender 
for the MIVA crown. The road ahead will see 12 
more conference matches and the opportunity 
for IPFW to pull ahead of the competition. 

They will continue to look for the production 
of their key players Zbyszewski, Dreisbach, Mike 
Daiga, Sikca, Randolph and Stewart. 

Ball is currendy sitting on victory number402 
and is definitely looking to see that number high 
into the teens, at least, this season. The next 
game against Loyola will be the first opportunity 
and litmus test for the Mastodons this season. 
Beating Loyola Friday will unseat the Ramblers 
from first place and eliminate a 



the way of IPFW's pursuit of an MIVA tide. 



OFF THE COURT. „„,„ 



eek, Nick sits down to talk to FABIANA SOUZA, 2004 All-Independent, 
"VP. Independent Tournament MVP and middle hitter for IPFW women's volleyb; 



"They either called me Fabini or Fabio, so I just told them to 

call me Fabi because because that would be easier than Fabiana" 



** 




