Indiana University 



Purdue University 



Fort Wayne 



— Summer Edition — 
Wednesday, May 18, 2005 



The Commi i ^cator 



....._ ■ Year in Review 

|fy Jlly ti Recapping pivitol sporting 

moments of the year. 
PAGE 05 



■ Masto-Mayhem 

A look at the mastodons that ,' 
are posted around the city. 
PAGE AS 



Volume 35, Issue 30 




Don't Panic 

"Hitchhiker's Guide to the 
Galaxy" movie compared to 
the novels. PAGEU 



14 Pages, 2 Sections, Free 




THIS WEEK ► 



IPFW's 



Turning the tassel st g 



Kettler Mall was the lone build- 
ing on campus, and many 
buildings have changed on the 
campus landscape. The next 
phase of development is al- 
ready underway. 

"Physically, IPFW will be 
undergoing a dramatic trans- 
formation In die next five years 

growth this campus has never 
seen," said IPFW Vice Chancel- 
lor Walt Branson. 

Among the many projects 

slated for construction, plans 

mega-buildlng i 

HIU- 

(iates Sport-. Ccntci have 




to Walh Union. 

The 16-studcm senior 
design class, CNbT 4-18 ProJ- 
l'li Design Synthesis, created a 
conceptual design Tor the con- 
nection between the buildings 
as their class project. 

This project Is a requlre- 
For students in the Archi- 
tectural Engineering to gradu- 
ate, and represents "kind of our 
capstone design class," said 
Brad Graber, architecture stu- 
dent and student project super- 
visor for die project. 
► EXPANSION: Page A2 



Communicator website 
now operational 

■ www.ipfwcommunicator.org running after a 
semester of difficulties 



hope out of tragedy 



Staff Report 



Communicator 



net. After not ha&gt; 

website since November 2002. on 
April 27 the paper launched the 
n of the paper's firm] 



you won't find in print. 

On May 10, the website 
offered its first online exclusive 
2 the first place 
e the signing c ' 



was first introduced to Best and 
the paper's most recent attempt 
at print and wire confluence. 




ud Andrew Welfle, 
served as editor-in-chief during 
the spring semester. "After years, 
It literally became i 



dated and maintained. In addi- 
tion to the stories that appear in 
the weekly publication, the web- 



ipsru 



photographers. 
Aiden Bordner, advertising 
manager of The Communicator 
designed the site and the data- 
base software that it will run on. 
Bordner is looking forward to 
seeing his work pay off with this 






s IPFW campus 



"It is a great Fe-.ni- 
students to get their new 
ed Bordner. "Now you &lt; 
The Communii jiik j-i I 



as April and a bright 
day. They didn't rei - 
ogni2e the sound of a gun being 
loaded. On that spring day. a 
daughter and a wife lost a loved 
one to suicide. 

Ithas been two years 
that day, and Ji 

now ending her treshman year 
at IPFW, is an advocate for sui- 
cide prevention alter witnessing 
her lather's suicide. 



beensuitid.il 1mm 
age I S. said Wilson. Her father 
had trouble with school and 

growing up in 



e household. Wilson's 



household. They w 
ried a year later, a 

years Wilson's mother w 

to keep her husband's suicidal 

lenileitriesatbay. 

"We tried to gel him 
help," Wilson said, "but it 
seemed to work out." Wilson's 
father worked as a truck driver, 
and was reluctant to take medi- 

that an anti-depressant might 
impair his ability to drive. 

"He didn't say 'I'm gonna 
kill myself,'" Wilson said. "He 
was kind of jusl plucked away." 

Her father was -Ih She was 



SUICIDE: PageA2 



WHERE TO GET HELP • WHERE TO GET HELP ■ 



Parkview Behavioral 
Health 
373-7500 

£j fW Police Crisis 
g Intervention Tom 
. dm .3*07 



Joanne B. Lsntz Education C\ 

Clink 3 

Neff 243— 4S1-H79 z 

IPFW/Parkvlew Health and £ 

Wellnms Clinic • 

Welb 234— 4S1-574I &lt; 



01 3«3HM • d!3H 139 01 3H3HM • d!3H 139 



Dan the dinosaur: An exit interview with one graduate 



By David C. Hunter 

dchunter©ipfwcommuniMtor.ors 



DanLobdell sat across I mm me. A couple of packs of 
cigarettes, my laptop and. i leu ball-empty glasses of Coca 
separated us in a small booth at the Denny's e 
vard. We were both two-day graduates of IPFW, both 



with bachelor's degrees, ; 
surface difference between u 
younger than my father. 
- "You've got to be a little 



tl\ unemployed. Hie only 



it 25." he'd dies' 



,s quickly as he said it, 

Right after graduating hoi 1 1 I Imhiirsi High School in Fort 
Wayne, Lobdell started at Wabash College in the fall of 1973. He 
dropped out after only one semester, seemingly because of disin- 
terest and too much drinking. 

After returning home he didn't stop drinking, and he "didn't 
know what was wrong." However, he was still a stellar athlete, 
and dating the daughter of IPFW's then financial-aid director Bill 
Arnold. IPFW approached him to play baseball and basketball for 



/. Lobdell had completed 

n education over 30 years in the making, and he had a few things 
a say to the graduating class of 2005. 1 was just along for the ride. 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



;, you know. Channel 15, and 70 percent of 

Newsroom: (260) 481 -6584 
Fax: (260) 481-6045 
Advertising Oept.: (260) 481-6583 
E-mail: contact@lpfwcommunicator.org 



"They made me an offer, like Don Corleone, (hey made me 
an offer I couldn't refuse. I obilell said. Me registered as a history 
major and began attending classes. 

Lobdell completed about 30 hours of general education 
courses before dropping out of college for the second lime. He'd 

► GRADUATE: Page A3 



Campus News A2 Features . 

Opinions. M Sports 

Arts &amp; Entertainment — A6 






TheCoivo 


/TUNICATOR 

PSNhc. 

Walb Union Sum 2 15 
2101 Coliseum B&lt;vd East 
Fon Wayne. IN 4680S 




tndrew Waffle 

iditor-in-Chtef 


&lt;.E. Casey 
Managing Editor 


Newsroom / Editor 

(260)481-6584 


cosqttpfwognmunlutix.aig 


&lt;amm*M**MMn 


Uden Bordner 

%dverlising Manager 


Advertising 

(260)481-6583 


&lt;aiiePruitt 

lopy Editor 

(niiii!J(i(ilM-i)mmunicjtoi.«g 


Publisher 

(260)481-6585 


David Hunter 

^Jews Editor 

ItjurterfflrAKorrminlcatii org 

Kelly Royal 

'hoto Editor 

royaiaipfwi ommunlrator.ofg 




IfHfflfllJM 




Inthony Maurer 

•ports Editor 


pii§~ 


telly Lynch 

l&amp;E Editor 

lynchOlp rwtom mun i« t w.otg 

Irianna Belford 




'age Designer 

.!..rl!..r ( | i-,|..N'. 1 -oiliilii.i(i».jl ■iu'J 


r.!«d^ivsx n '."»'x 


Steve Pepple 

Thief Reporter 




Jorle Reynolds 

'ublisher 

leyrd(iSB(toariiiiri3to(on) 





and her mother are still dealing with the 
loss of their loved one. She spoke of the dif- 
ficulty of routine chores such as fixing her 



Thee 



ii iilsn aliened her memory a 



concentration, she said. 

Her mother must also deal with deep 
bouts of depression in addition to being af- 
flicted with fibromyalgia. "My dad was her 
life," Wilson said, speaking of her mother. 

To cope. Wilson and her mother at- 
tend a group for suicide survivors called 
We the Living. The group, made up of 30 
people, meets the second Wednesday of 



Today, she is looking to the future. 
and working to make sure that no one else 
suffers the same loss. She is soon to be mar 
ried, and is finishing her first year at 1PFW 
as an elementary education major. 

"Everything's going pretty well," she 
said, "I'm really wanting to prevent people 
from doing it (committing suicide)." 

She spoke at a panel on suicide at 
IPFW in September. The 10-person panel 



"We all shared our stories," Wilson 

Wilson is interested in creating a 
public service announcement about suicide 
prevention, and she and her mother also 
are potential candidates to take over We the 
Living after the current directors retire. 

Wilson said she encounters a great 
deal of stigma associated with talking about 



"Suicide is a very taboo subject," she 
aid. When she mentions what happened 
o her family, "the conversation stops, they 
List look at you," Wilson said. • 

"A lot of people are really rude about 
ask her "why 



average of 687 Indiana residents died from 
suicide 

This silence over a prevalent issue is 
compounded by casual use of suicide in 
many people's daily lives. 



that there is a human face behind every 
number. 

She noted several examples of the lack 
of public knowledge about suicide, a 



es, they use suicide for no ap 
parent reason," Wilson said. 

The very fact that suicide is an un- 
mentionable subject prevents discussion 



an a great deal. Wilson said 
that many of her friends didn't know how to 
talk to her after her father died. "They don't 
know what to say," Wilson said. She often 
finds that people are interested simply in 
the sensational aspects of her father's death. 
However, "you can tell (when) they're really 









"Talking about it helps n 

Discussion is an important aspect of 
healing after dealing with suicide. If some- 
one knows a person dealing with h 
concerning suicide, "Be s:' 
is anything you c 



;, ask if there 
n said. "Let 
them know" that they can talk about the 
issue, even it is not necessarily interesting 
to the other person, she advised. 



are you still dwelling" over the loss from t\ 
years ago. 

Despite the taboo associated with the 
subject of suicide, the National Center for 
Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC), 
part of the Center for Disease Control 
(CDC) reports several revealing figures: 

— 30,622 people died from suicide in 

—132,353 persons were put in the 
lio-.pu.il alter attempting suicide 

— 1 16,639 were sent to emergency 
rooms before being released 

— In Indiana suicide is the 1 1th lead- 
ing cause of death, and 

According to the Suicide Prevention 
Resource Center: 

—In the years 1999-2001, each year an 



eight off 



"To them it's like lifting; 
their shoulders," Wilson said. 

IPFW has many resources for students 
seeking help with depression or preventing 
suicide. 

"College age is when severe mental 
illnesses often exhibit themselves," said An- 
drea Herman of the Fort Wayne chapter of 



developed a Crisis Intervention Team 
(CIT) consisting of two officers specifically 
trained to help persons who pose a threat 
to themselves or others. CIT officers are 
able to assess whether a person needs to be 
sent to jail or put in a facility equipped with 
someone dealing with dangerous mental 



the CIT, officers must earn 
lication, and must have It 
a year. In 2001-21)05, then 



The Fort Wayne Police Department 
trained IPFW's CIT, and the two depart- 
ments keep a "good working relationship." 
Davis said. 

Davis and Herman were present at 
i April 20 and 2 1 workshop conducted a 



Every IPFW student has access to 
persona] counseling in the Joanne B. Lantz 
Education Clinic and IPFW/ Parkview 
Health and Wellness Clinic for counseling 
and guidance. 

"The key is just to get help," said 
Cheryl Erickson, Nurse Practitioner with the 
Wellness Clinic. The clinic is licensed to pre- 
scribe anti -depressants, and is able to "work 
very closely ... with personal counseling" to 
provide students will a two-fold approach 



The IPFW police department h 



IPFW, entitled Applied Suicide It 

Skills Training (AS1S 1 ), The workshop was 

sponsored by the Indiana Suicide Preven- 



o learn how to deal with a 
crisis situation. These workshops have been 
offered at different places as well, said Col- 
leen Carpenter, project coordinator for the 



help if someone is suffering with a mental 
illness. The Carriage House, located on 
Lake Avenue, is a "recovery club house," 
she said, for people who "can't work yet or 
go to school." The house was developed by 
families who had been affected by mental 

"They didn't want people to suffer 
alone," she said. 

"There is a stigma that you don't talk 
about," she said of mental illness. On Tues- 
days at 7:00 p.m., the Carriage House holds 
support groups for "anyone who needs 
information," Herman explained. She men- 
tioned that IPFW nurses sometimes attend 
to gain a better understanding of mental 
illnes-, that ihey someday might ei 



"Nobody talks about it," Herman said 
of mental illness, "unless you open up." 

Carpenter stressed the need for young 
people to encourage their friends to get 
help if they are worried that the friend may 
be suicidal. "It's better to temporarily lose a 
friendship than lose a life," she said. 

"Suicide is a permanent answer to a 
temporary problem," said Wilson. 

"You may feel horrible right now," she 
said. "But it will get better." 



The Student v were handed llie preliminary 
budget for the plan— $41) million—and other 
university restrictions. I he students factored in 
the constraints i&gt;l the land as well as the desires 
of the various departments in Wall), the library 

"This is just one concept," Graber ex- 
plained. 

The students spent the entire semester cre- 
ating the prujeil Ihey initially broke into two 
teams anil tame up with two concepts of how to 
expand the site However, iliey then decided that 
neither idea would work, and so they brought 






:. The actually drawing of the plat 



took much 1 

"We put a lot of thought" into the plans, 
said Graber. "We did a lot of research." 

"We followed (an) overall development 
plan, 1 ' explained Andy fiearman. another stu- 
dent in the class. 

"This is hopefully to give the university an 
idea of what to do." and to supply preliminary 
data that the university will need when ihey hire 
a professional architectural firm to complete the 
project, he said. 

This project stems from the ll'IW adminis- 
tration's desire to move tin hulkot stuileni traffic 
inwards Walb Union. 

"The administration had wanted to do 
something to shift the tuial point of campus," 
said student body president Chris Yahne, The 
state supplied S;i() million for the project, and 
IPFW had to raise the remaining S10 million. 

"We're the only college to see a net increase 
in funding this year." said Valine, adding that the 
Indiana legislature saw a "demonstrated need" 
for expansion. 



_^ ^^ WiLh* 




J^^\ \ 






yy 1 [ = current location of 
JC. I I Walb Union 




$2v^sV?S 




s\ ■■■ = current location of 
\ §■ Gates Sports Center 
















5s*%Cv^« 


V\M / WM 








T^V^ 


WMm&gt; 








\(V3i \ 


/ ^m(w9B5s?Murr' 








B^^7V 




^? 






2M 



Graphic courtesy of II 



the construct ion of a hotel on IPFW property near 

the Coliseum. The project will include a revamp of 

the Coliseum Intersection, and an enabling park, 

so named t 

handicap at 

St Mary's river to connect the hotel and the south 

side of campus are also being planned. 

Some changes to IPFW will not be physical. 
According to Branson, IPFW is looking towards 
more collaboration with IVY Tech. The accep- 
tance of more transler.ible c redits is one example. 
This is the goal of the Crossroads program — "start 
there and end up over here." 

Branson says the campus is looking more at 
a formalized effort to market the IPFW, Ivy Tech, 
and Coliseum area. "We want to market all this 
area has to offer. 

Branson said Dial a 



,i would act sort of like 



a position ti 



i, Branson said 



" he said. 

In keeping nnli tin 
the campus is looking a 
egy," catering to northeast Indiana. 

Academically speaking, Branson spoke of of- 
fering coursed and majors that would be distinc- 
tive of this area and IPFW. Branson anticipates 
more growth in research, such as the Community 
Research Institute, as well as expansion into other 

Continuing studies will be a major part of 

IPFW's plans, he said. 

Distance learning— Internet, TV. DVD, CD 
courses-- will become increasingly important, 
because these options often are a convenient op- 
tion for students. Likewise, Warsaw, Angola, Ken- 
dallville, and Garrett centers are a good option 
so students don't have to drive far, according to 



we're very lucky to have such a great reia- MOVIN' ON UP: Walb Union and Gates Sports Center are being connected to 
tionship with legislators," Yahne said. form a large student activities center. 



I he expansion of Wall) will be within five 
sever years, according to Yahne. The engineer- 
ing students' proposal represents, according to Yahne, the "first may differ from the original. 
conceptual eilort to visualize and operate within the needs and closer to St. loe Road traffic, in order to bring in the community. 

" &gt;f the IPFW campus. "The growth oi ihc-campnstranslatesintobenefitsforalumni 

Hie student government has also initiated other plans to for students," said Yahne, "its good for all of us," he said. 



Another minor change that will be occur- 
l within the next year at IPFW: the campus will 
ne switching to a sysiein-ivitle software service in 
conjunction with a Purdue change. 

Purdue needs new systems, and IPFW will 
placed be changing with them. Branson said both campuses a 



campus improvement ,\ new sjdtw.ilk should soon be poured 
near the Canterbury/Saint loseph Hm.ilcvaril stoplight to give bi- 
cyclists a safe passage into &lt; ampus I lie projee i should be done by 



v. ill hi Imi .a.. -J ln-iv.c-n 1 1 n ■ Wiiharns Theater and Gates, 
finalized. There will be a bid this summer and next fall for the con- 
'the building. Branson also said that Indiana University 
Center at the north-east area 



make that transition as smooth and urmoticeable as possible. 

At the end of the 2006 academic year IPFW's current Strategic 
Plan will expire. 

The newplan for 2006-201 1 is already taking shape, said Bran- 
son. A Strategic Planning Conference was held a couple of weeks 
ago. Branson said the university is at the brainstorming stage for 
the next plan. "We are looking at branding a name for ourselves." 

Looking to the future, Hr.uis M n -.ml he would like to see the 
campus prove accessible to education in Indiana. "Purdue, be- 
cause (hey are reaching ilh'ii capacity, is turning to IPFW for acces- 
the campus will be sibility, which is a good opportunity for IPFW." 



IPFW'sHerbie: A faculty 
members classic car the 
same age as university 






r&amp;t! ■'.; ' 



ITS analyst Larry Teme- 
noff has always had a soft spot 
for the Volkswagen Beetle. From 
the time he was a boy driving 
around in a BeeUe with his uncle 
to learning how to drive behind 
tlie wheel of one. Temenoff knew 
he would one day have a Beetle 
himself. 

"I have always had fond 
memories of the Beetle when I 
remember the '60s. Most of the 
college kids had a Beetle then." 
he said. 

The Beetle is the single 
most ] 

duced since its inlroductio 
in 1930 Nazi Germany. Hitler 
wanted a car that was easy to 
manufacture, cheap for con- 
sumers and required minimal 
maintenance. According to the 
local VW Beetle Club, most of 
the early Beetles have collaps- 
ible parts, making for quick and 
easy repair. 

Temenoff began looking 
for his piece of history in 2004. 
While he searched online tire- 
lessly for over six months, he 
knew he wanted a Beetle man- 
ufactured before 1969. Finally 
after narrowing his search, Te- 
menoff was drawn to one car in 
particular. But it took his wife to 
point out why he was so taken 
with the bi-colored car from 
California. 

"Those are IPFW's colors," 
she told him. And as he sat and 




"It was a 1964 model, 
which is the year the campus 
opened," Temenoff recalls. "And 
it sure enough was painted in 
IPFW's colors. The silver on the 
car almost matches our mast- 
odon mascot's skin perfectly." 

1964 also evoked other 
memories for Temenoff; 
the year he learned to drive, be- 



hind the wheel of a Beetle and a 
stick shin. 

So, he bought iuand had it 
shipped from San Diego, Cali- 
fornia. He was quick to point out 



than that to have it hauled to In- 

"The owner in California 
had restored it, so it was in pretty 
good shape," " 



ed hack into history to the 60s. 

1964 was a year of great 
change in America. One year 
after the assassination of Presi- 
dent lohn F. Kennedy, the 1964 
presidential election saw Lyndon 
Johnson defeat Barry Goldwater. 
It also was the year The Beatles 
debuted on "The Ed Sullivan 
Show" and "Mary Poppins" was 
a box-office hit. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. was awarded the Nobel 
Prize for peace. Also that year, 
the Colts were still in Baltimore 
and a group of castaways sailed 
off on a three-hour tour on the 
television debut of "Gilligan's 1s- 



courtesy of Larry Ti 



decked-out IPFWcar to bring at- 
tention to the university. 

"It will be appearing 

throughout the year at special 



iShoaffl'arkmAu 
gust, The university also asks me 
to use it every once in a while," 
Temenoff said. 

Because the Beetle is in its 
original form, Temenoff uses the 
car stricdy for Fort Wayne driv- 
ing only, as it has no seatbelts 
and no air bags. Older Beetles 
have been phased 



aside, lemeiioff said that 
he does drive it around the city, 
is positive. 




Enjoy taking and editing 
photographs? 

Maybe you just want 
to have a voice in your 
campus newspaper... 



NOW IS YOUR CHANCE. 

Several paid staff positions are open 
for the Fall 2005 publication term. 



The student editors of The Communicator are 
currently taking applications for the positions of: 

NEWS EDrrOR, SPORTS EDITOR, 

ARTS &amp; ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR, 

COPY EDITOR, PHOTO EDITOR, 

CHIEF REPORTER and 
PAGE DESIGNER/PAGINATOR. 



If you are interested in the possibility of defining the voice of 

IPFW's only student publication, 
stop by Walb Union, Room 215 to fill out an application. 

Help define the voice of your paper! 




History professor retires 
after 35 years of service 

■ A.J. Violette speaks of career opportunities, family 



six months in Finland while 
doing research on Russian Na- 
val reform movements. Upon 
completion of his research, he 
had just enough money to buy 
q Volkswagen and a house in In- 
diana. How he landed at IPFW 
in 1970 is still somewhat of a 
mystery to him. 

"I really am serious when I 



Ami'le Vink'iie in Maine 
i area largely populated hv 



lege and did his graduate work 
at Ohio Slate. 

Violette never intended 
to become a professor. As was 
popular at the time, he envi- 
sioned himself working for the 
Civil Service, but according to 
him. he got "propelled along, 
and took the path of least resis- 
tance." Violette chose the sub- 
ject of history because he has 
always been enthralled with 
the history or his heritage, the 
country and Indiana. 

After his master's course 
work was completed, he served 
his compulsory two-year stint 
in the military. "Back in the 60s, 
when you signed up for ROTC, 
you had a notion of going to 
Europe and having a good time 
there for a few years," Violette 
said, "But since 1 delayed my 
duty for my graduate 



aware o(." Violette i 
a student when I whs hired and 
I didn't even know thai I had 
applied for the job. Apparently 



,' pri'diii'v 



.' knew iu\ 



"In the real world, 
there are no 
incompletes." 

— A.J. Violette 



"I have at Icasi two shelves 
of books at home that I would 
like to read." he said. "1 have 
also signed up for a volunteer 
job wuli the Northeast Indiana 
ll.iiliu [(failing Service." 

In that position. Violette 
will read newspapers or books 
the radio to blind people 






aable 



Vitileii 



) plans 



advisor and whei 
he retired, he made my advlSO 
aware of the vacancy. The nex 
thing 1 knew I had a letter offer 
ingmethejob." 

While Violette knows ilia 



for taking him on as a lecturer 
for the history department. 

The 35 years since have 
flown by. Throughout his career 



studies, by the I; 
anymore." 



i campus and n 
historical information to the 
community, lie has developed 
courses on Russian Revolution- 
aries and also worked closely 
with the Indiana Historical 
Society to develop historical 



When asked aln 
he will miss the ino 
teaching when he ret; 
lette simply replied ' 






assj|'iiMii'iils-he Is h 
free of that. 

What is Violettc's final 
piece of advice for those who 
get a chance to lake his 



life," he jumped into doctoral 
work. He and his young wife 
traveled to Europe to live for 



APPLICATIONS DUE BY JULY 6 



Announcing... The winners of 



After a month. The Communicator received over a dozen submissions of 
short stories. Judging was based on format (fiction), clarity, word usage 
and style. The following submissions were chosen: 



"The Almost First Date" 

by Rick Grzych 
Freshman, Secondary Education 

Wendell's approach was smooth. 

"How much do you weigh?" as Monique's jaw dropped. "I 
figured we could do Golden Corral and karaoke afterwards," he 
pressed. 

"I'd rather have my eyelids ripped out," she countered. 

"Hmm— is that a no? Wendell asked the vacant area. 

Women! Wendell concluded, always playing games. 



Second Puce — $25: 

"Road Trip" 

by Jeniffer Biedermann 

English 

It's a beautiful morning. The sun is shining. A cool breeze 
filters in through the open windows. Everyone is smiling. All is 
peaceful. Nothing can go wrong. 

Uh oh! Wrong turn, missed exit! Drivers curse. Horns blare. 
Fingers flipped. Kids screaming in the backseat. 

"Dear God, are we there yet?" 



"Drunken Blue Spaces Girl" 

by David E. Jackson 

Senior, Psychology 

One lover once told me I possessed the personality of a shark 
And I snapped at her, "There are plenty of fish in the sea." 
Delving oceans void— to tame thirst — drowning can liberate 

too. 
I am now once again becoming hungry, grown mad with lust 

for those salty words. 



The Communicator, Confluence literary magazine and the Department of 
English and Linguistics would like to thank everyone who submitted. 



The Communicator 



EWTORIALPAGEENTOR 

K.E.Cw»MarugngE*a 



Podium 



Editorials • Letters 



W«lwsdjy.Mjy18.2005 



w/ftXOrAfc +• -Hfe &amp;* \Vo?u&gt; 







Staff Editorial 



Kelly Lynch / klynch@ipfwcommunicator.org 



The Communicator congratulates the class of 2005 



As the university celebrates Ihe May 1 1 
graduation of IPl-'W's class of 2005, The Com- 
congralulatory 
or. David C. Hunter, 
the "real world." 
does not bring the 
with the end &lt;&gt;l hi^li 
■spnnsihility — and 
imple col- 



r extends 
nod. We lose our news edit 
as well as many friends, to 
The end of a college career 
sense of change that came 
school. Instead, it brings n 
ambiguity — unbeknownst 
lege freshmen. Suddenly, c 






truly up 



"' ' Whether it'iookfouryears or 10 to obtain 
the degrees we once thought would be so use- 
ful, there is a sense of accomplishment that ac- 
companies a college graduation. College asked 



more of us than high school did and, we surely 
got more out of it. Whereas high school was a 
requirement, college was a choice. 

The collegiate experience differs from 
campus to campus, and IPFW's environment 
blends the major university experience — with 
its graduate programs, Division 1 athletics and 
campus housing — with the benefits of a small- 
er institution, which include more personal 
relationships with pmtessors and classmates. 

Future and progress are rhe buzzwords 
oh this campus lately, but the 2005 graduates 
have seen their share of improvements with the 
addition of campus housing and the athletics' 
jump to Division I. In addition to these tan- 



yililu advances, there is also a growing sense of 
pride among IPFW students, faculty and staff 
that the aforementioned changes have pro- 
voked. We're proud to be associated with IPFW 
as it becomes a first, not second or third-choice 
university. 

You can tell a lot about an institution by 
the company it keeps. When people like Nikki 
Giovanni, Depak Chopra, DickVitale, David 
Brooks and James Earl Jones show up at IPFW 
as guest speakers, and when one looks at the 
graduates heading into the workforce this year, 
it gives the university a credibility in the aca- 
demic world and a presence in the Fort Wayne 
community. 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Editorial did not go far enough More signs the end is near 



t article about the legaliz 
linn of marijuana left me disappointed to say the 
least. As a fervent supporter of the legalization 
movement I felt there was wa&gt; more to be said. 

California as well as seven other states 
have already legalized mari|uana tor medicinal 
use, despite the tact that the federal overnment 
denies it. The DEA frequently raids medicinal 
growers and arrests patients with a legal riejit to 
use cannabis. 

Elderly who depend on these growers to 
snuthe their pain .tie either now without medi- 
cine or themselves incarcerated Please do not 
lorKC't die lac t thai marijuana is in no way physi- 
i allvaddit t ive.dcspi I e several "legal ' druc;-. heme, 
far more addictive, harmful and deadly. 

The fact remain- dial the drug companies 
and lobbyists do whatever they can to keep 
cannabis illegal. II this miracle drug marijuana 
can help so mam people deal with their pain 
rn problems why would anyone pay for these 
prescription drugs? Who needs Prozac lor insert 
other prescription "Icel good' ding here) when 
you've got weed? 

It is in these drug companies' best inter- 
est, as well as the interests ol large alcohol and 
tobacco companies to keep marijuana illegal. 



count the munchies. As far as that lie a 

making you a brain-dead sloner, know this, some 
of the most well educated and intelligent people 
I know smoke cannabis regularly. 

A recent Harvard study published in the 
American Journal of Addictions shows that long 



! Staff Column 



e pulled over because of a iraf- 
riolaiion or accident and forced to take a drug 
I, you could be charged with a DUID (Driving 
der the Influence of Drugs) if you test positive 

Anyone that knows about marijuana testing 
i tell you that you can test positive on a urine 
: as much as a month or more after smoking. 
s that while it is legal to drink 
s long as you are under 









the state minimum .nil"- blood alcohol level; you 
cannot legally drive your vehicle as much as a 
month or more after smoking a joint. 

Finally and most importantly I would 

like to say thai marijuana is not going n. legalize 



itself. 



there a 



unchecked. 

If you believe a 



■ powerful companies and lobby- 
th billions of dollars speaking for 
not raised is a voice wasted. We 

by and let our freedoms slip away 



1 do in the legalization of 



NORMLorg] One legal i 
greai many students is 
Acts drug provision. 

Under this act. initi;i 



Here are a few to get yon started: The National 
i Jrgani/alion lur the Helorni ol Marijuana Ltws 
iXOKMI .org), lhev have a great newsletter and 
ions of inlo; Modems for a Sensible Drug Policy 
lssdp.org), mentioned above; anil Drug War l-acis 
idnie.vv.trlacts.orei], (his site lists tons of facts 
aboul die War mi Drugs, liemetnher, if you think 
there is no way to change things then they have 
already won. 



son.il Irccdoiu." -Hill Hicks I, tier dead hero: 



rape, murder, or other violent crimes. Smoking 
joints most be far worse than these other crimes. 
Students for a Sensible Drug Policy lssLlii.org) 



When speaking of the Apocalypse, I been a surprise. 



acknowledge tl a filiv-littv chance that til e world 
will come to an end, as suggested by eminent 
. osmologjst Martin Pees. Whether this assump- 
tion had merit, we will never know. Clearly, the 
world has not meet dystopia or i ollapse umie yet 
I'xcept (or maybe lorn DeLay and his cohorts. 
Still, there has to be a possibility of Armageddon, 
and the exact chance of it certainly won't mattei 
either way. 

The daily reports of pris- ==^= 
oner abuse at the hands of 
American and British troops, ir 
Iraq and elsewhere, led some o 
us to believe if the world wasn'&lt; 
ending, the West's already doubt 



Hiding v. 



decline. 

Today, the news doesn't 
look good — scandals only seem 
to be unfolding. Yet, at least 
from an American perspective, 
the credibility of the U.S. f 



truth may hold 

On the other side of these 
paradoxes, though, lies the 
presidency of George W. Bush. 



But everyone, peaceniks anrt hawks .dike. 
had hoped, following relatively peaceful elec- 
tions, the country would stay on a peaceful track. 
The news, even just this past week, sadly, indi- 
cates the opposite. 

Another sad scene in the world this last 
semester, was the utter refusal of the interna- 
tional community to prevent genocide and other 
crimes against humanity in 
^^==^== Dafur, Myamar and else- 
where. In this, we all have 
blood on our hands. 

I mistakenly thought art, 
like the Oscar nominated film 
"Hotel Rwanda," news and 
other public acknowledge- 



I mistakenly thought 

art, like the Oscar 

nominated film 

'Hotel Rwanda/ news 

and other public 

acknowledgement 

of such humanitarian 

crimes would spur the 

hinds of leaders and 

the public alike to act. 

I, unfortunately, was 

mistaken. 



l.m; 



:ide 



. Why? 
sand other 

issues like the possible nomi- 
nation of a couple court judg- 
es. (Who, by the way, are sup- 
posed to be neutral anyway). 
On a lighter note. I 
wrote a confessional, perhaps 
self-righteous, column on the 
question of hooking up. Of 



Shane Baerlin 
Freshman, Philosphy 



hopes have remained low in the minds of n 
Americans. 

II even seems, by their better judgment, 
Republicans and conservatives realized some 
flaws in their zeal. Well maybe not, I preemptive- 
ly correct that. Conservatives are actually jusi 
positioning .md llghtine armings! themselves, as 
tend to do, especially since Cheney is 



o live your sex life. I did precisely that, with the 
very gal 1 had so sublimely overcome. And, of 
course, the results were ambiguous, at best. 

At worst, I spoiled a good friendship and 
overstretched my commitments. So, again I 
warn, be wary of the hook-up's allure. And for 
that matter, boyfriends and girlfriends i.m In .m 
elongated hook-up too, so avoid those as well. 

Like a night on the booze, you'll end up 
with a headache tommorow. 



Editorial Policy 



Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed do no 1 

The Communicator welcomes responses. Letters to the Editor must be signed, d 
ing these requirements will not be considered for publication. All submissions made 

Submissions must be typed, and no more fhan 700 words. The editorial board of The Communicator reserved the right to edit all subm- 
libelous by the editorial board will not be published under any 



fily reflect the views of IPFW, its employees or its student body. A column is solely the opinion of its author. 
accompanied by a current address, telephone number and class standing/major or title (if applicable). Letters not meet- 
' will be verified by telephone or in person. Addresses and telephone numbers will not be published. 

for length, grammar, style, and clarity, Letters deemed potentially 






Fort Wayne traffic makes writer reconsider 



Staff Writer 



Anybody else half driving in thK illustrious city of ours? 1 flashers on? And gel ih.it bulb fixed Another deadly sin &lt;&gt;t driving 

Km- I do Hvitv time I get on the road. I encounter stupid drivers is the cut-off. Everyone has been on .1 street in which one lane in 

stupid street names. another ends hike West State at Wells Street. I verynne who drive-. 

And of course, there is never a police officer around when this stretch knows that the right lane of traffic ends in a turn only 

in need one. Why is 11 whenever I accidemly run a red light, or lane after Wells Street. 

a stop sign, there is inevitably a cop sitting three But I am continually surprised at the number of people who 

■ — will get in (be right lane anyway and try to 

„_ . . , race to get ahead of the left lane of traffic, or 

ever heard. Why IS it Whenever I at the ones who don't even bother to race 

Do you know why I stopped ynu?" Well. arrirfontlu nWi a rail link* ThL 'V l llsl lorct ' lhlir l ™v over. My message to 

icxouid it have anything to do with accidently run a red light, aU „, lh ,,„ , lml ,.,,,„. S1 , llamn ,, /v Art " vmi 

1 light I just ran^ Km detwng all logic, Or forget to StOD at 3 StOP really loo good to wail a minute and a half to 

r three cars run a red light and I . * ■ ■ •* ui cross Wells? 

get stuck at one. there are never any cops in Sign, tnere IS inevitably a Myself, 1 speed up to prevent the "right 

sight. Never. Or how about on the highway? - _ s j*#j nn three feet awav? 1 ' 1IU ' rs ' ""'"" R*' ,,in K over. I his has caused 

On 1-69. hardly anyone uses turn signals, top SIXIing mree TeeX away . my ^ ^^ ^ miltonsI , uhn .„,. 

They always SWitCh On their forced to turn right, but they shouldn't have 

lights and follow me to ask ^ een s,upi ? to hegin wlth - Now if the 

the stupidest questions I 

have ever heard. 

"Do you know why I 

stopped you?" 






stopping people for seatbelt viola- 



But there wouldn't be such a need for 
: numbers of traffic officers if drivers 
en't so stupid themselves. Is it really that 
1 signal? Everyone has 



from out of town, I can see that they 
have known about the merge. I give them the 
benefit of the doubt. But if you have Allen 
County licence plates, Watch Out because 
you won't get let over. In addition to having 



been in front of 
ml and does not 
impending turn. 



who is disrespect- 

s behind him of his 



; stuck wondering why he 
is slowing down in "&gt;ll inpli ir.iffn. Now there is a line twelve 
long riding their brakes, wondering why. All 
been avoided if you they had just used a turn 
signal the other 

drivers of the intent lo turn. Or how about the penpl&lt; 



ir blink. How 

Yesterday I rode behind someone for a good fifteen minutes str 

waiting lor liirn 10 turn So when I passed linn 1 nut iced that he had of 

his lour- ways on. and one was hi inn out in the hack. But come on 

- why do you need to drive around for fifteen minute with your mi 



Fon Wayne. 

Why, I ask, does every one of our streets 

— — — ^— have to change names? If it is not changing 

from a number to a name, a la 930 being 

Coliseum and 3 being Lima fkl, then it is jusi 1 hanging to a whole 

of that could have different name, like I'arnell turns into Clinton and Bass ltd. turns 

signal. You know to into Spring St. What gives? 

Are there too many people 10 praise, and not enough streets 

to do .so? Is that why it is virtually impossible to give directions to 

outsiders? I used to work at a hotel in downtown Fort Wayne (with 

DO they drive you all of its one way streets, that is .111 entirely different column) and 

getting oul-of-towners here was like pulling teeth. I hey would 

Is it really too much to ask for a bit 



Jity? 



o ,.,,■( o 



Advice for incoming freshmen students 

As the World Turns 






This past weekend we were glad to welcome the SOAR I know, it's only 10:30 in the morning, but the driver 

program back to the IPFW campus. It's a nice way to introduce very nervous. My name? Ummm, sorry, gotta run." 

incoming freshman to the school and answer any random ques- This is how you get back at a stupid roommate. But I 

tion they may have about anything at all. In light of this, I'd like to digress, 

offer a few of my thoughts to the class of 2009. In any case, I highly recommend you drink whenever and 

First, your freshman year in college will he like no other. You wherever possible Make friends with upperclassmen who'll have 

will experience things, be exposed to ideas, and meet people you no problem picking up an extra case for their little freshmen 

have absolute!; nothing in common with. Don't freak out: anxiet- friends. This brings me to my second point, 

ies about this are nothing new. The best of course of action that Girls: the easiest way to gel guys of legal drinking age to buy 

1 can suggest, to deal with all the experiences bombarding your you whatever type of alcohol you so desire is to promise them 

tender young eraniums. is 10 d.npk_— heavily,— and often,;, sexual favors. I know that you're sitting there, pretending to get 

This past weekend we were glad to welcome the SOAR upset about that comment, thinking 



nthey may have about anything , it all in light of this, I'd like to 
offer a few of my thoughts to the class of 2009. 

Drinking makes everything go away. You've got a tough class? 
Drink and it won't be so bad. A test tomorrow that you know abso- 
lutely nothing about? It's time for a long drawn out game of beer 
pong. Your room- 
mate being a real -'■ • • ' l- " ' ' • ' ' ' - 

jackass? Plant beer 



ehon. 



But I hear you 
saying, "But Nick, 
I'll be in an apart- 



cool, young grass- 
hopper. Simply 
get your hands ( 



You will experience things, be exposed to ideas, 
and meet people you have absolutely nothing 

in common with. Don't freak out: anxieties 

about this are nothing new. The best course of 

action that I can suggest, to deal with all the 

experiences bombarding your tender young 

eraniums, is to drink- heavily- and often. 



1 cheap bottle of 

vodka (and by cheap I mean a hall step up from rubbing alcohol) yourself. How coherent 
and break into his car in the middle of the night. Pour the booze and four beers? It' 



: v'.ill gut ire.il m yon, don't lie. 
' don't u inally put out, it won't hurt to promise 
nookie in Lie walk-in closet in return for a dozen Smirnoff Triple 
Black. That way, even if nothing happens, he'll still think that 
something could occur. And ibis, girls, is die key element: always 
leave them guessing. As long as you get the booze whenever you 
wain, tell them anything they want to hear. 

What other advice can I give? 
__ — Le t &gt; s s e e.. .booze, sex. ..ah yes: lie to 

your parents all the time, except when 
answering the question, "Do you need 
any more money?'' The correct reply, 
at all times, is, "Well, you know, I could 
always use .mother hundred." 

If they're gonna offer, you might 
as well not look a gift horse in the 
mouth. However. ..if they ask about 
classes, always say, "Oh they're good, 
but challenging. I'm learning a lot." 
This answer will always satiate their 
curiosity. Also, talk to them on the 
phone drunk as often as possible. It 
can be a sort of game you play with 
an I pretend to be after seven lager shots 



IPFW: not just 
a backup plan 

For the Write Reason 



elU health clinic. 

choosing where to continue my following my diagnosis, I 

education. returned home to Ion Wayne 

1 grew up in one of "those" to recuperate. 
families You know — educat- 
ed. Both of my parents went 

to college and I was successful It was then that I understood 

enoughinhighsehool(National that 1 had been depressed, 

Honor Society and all that) that but it took me two years and 



t logical 



college loomed 
cal step In my life, 
swallowing is the 
step alter chewing. 

I wasn't forced into col 
lege. It wasn't as if there wa: 
something else ___ 
I wanted to do. 
I was expected 
to go, but there 
wasn't any pres- 



few unrelnted life-changing 
moments to stop blaming IU 
and myself and to accept that 
just because it's called a uni- 
versity doesn't mean it's univcr- 
s.illv appropriate. 






would call 
butterfly." I 



IPFW isn't where I 
thought I'd end up 
but very few things 

taincd several tUITI OUt the Way W6 have 'a'few 

ffiiSro expect. I like it more -y^d 

1 applied here, of than I ever thought I am also i 

hvetm'iHit'esfmm w°"W- Education is a f£™ ,0 
process and the end is &gt; 

not always the goal. to have 



my house. But I 
assumed I would 
be going away to 
college — farther 



friends 
It) with 1 



My parents' degrees t 

from IPFW, but they seemed think about what would'vehap- 

to want something "better" for pencd to me there, 

me. She saved my life literally 

There's a stigma attached when I got sick and she prob- 



campuses like 

IPFW and even though I didn't being 
look down on my friends who I'm not sorry I 

chose IPFW, I never considered It turned out to be 1 

it seriously for myself, "learning eiperiem 

a returning stu- enls think "build 



it figuratively just by 



1 I certainly didn't have Hut 1 came dangerously close 
1 losing myself there and ft 

IPFW isn't where I thought 

i end up but very few things 

1 the way we expect. 






Because of it 
offer a wide variety of c 
and degrees, and at 10, although 



at III. I met iuleiesting people, about i 

took interesting classes, saw process and the end is 1 

interesting jil.it es and changed always the g 



discover the 

But I didn't connect with goal only in retrospect. In terms 

any of it. I was friendly with of classes, credits and getting 

some of the girls who lived on my degrees, the time I spent 

my floor, but I wasn't friends at IU was a waste, but in terms 

with them. 1 simply wasn't able of carving out an identity for 

to make a connection with the myself— separate from every- 

peoplc or the place, I liked and one I've ever known— it was 

still like HI' inginii, but it essential. 

is filed in my memory as one IPFW has proven to be 

of those "It's a nice place to another logical step in the 

visit but I wouldn't want to live adventure that is my life. I have 

there" situations. formed real connections here 

Midway through my third and met people who challenge 






, I got pneumonia. It 



allowed my mind to become so 
detached from my body. 

My behavior — i.e. staying 



J excite mc the way I thought 
IU would. 

I don't feel like I'm receiv- 
ing a substandard education in 
English or In women's studies, 






s my friends 



i then slide the bottle underneath 

Then, jot down the license plate and phone it in to the I haven't addressed. Don't worry, this happens all the time. Just 
friendly neighborhood police. It's very simple: "Yes, officer. I think close your eyes, count to ItJ and i|uick!y drink the Kool-Aid. 
I've just spotted a drunk driver. Yes, he's weaving all over the road. 

Night life in Korea: Karaoke not for all 

Subtitles 



in bed all day— hadn't changed my family because they're right 

so my roommate didn't realize here loo. 
anything was wrong either. I've managed to find abal- 

By the time I recognized ance between going away and 

that I was sick, I was too weak being away, and IPFW helped 

and feverish to do anything me figure it out. 
about it. I insisted to my room- 



I leaned over and closed the swinging 
glass door with my finger. It was the fourth 
time that I had cut off our private room 
from the blaring Korean music in the rest 



"You're really pissing me off, Ryan 
Teacher," Smith said with a big smile on his 
face, the same smile he uses when he tells 
me that I need to do something around 
school. He's quite the champion of mock- 
sternness (hut is easy to ignore). 

I'm Ryan Teacher in Korea, because 
that's how you'd say it in Korean. Your first 
name (which here is your family name) and 
"sawn-sang-nitn," which kind of means 
teacher, but only in the most broad sense. 
Callilng Mr. Kim "Kim Sawn-sang-nim" 
apparently translates right into me being 
called Ryan Teacher. 

Smith is my boss (but, again, only in 






new," he said. "Go out and have 
fun together outside of school. Unles 
have a good excuse, you have to be there. 
Compulsory fun isn't unusual in Korea. 

I'm not normally a heavy drinker, and 
I hate it when the music in a bar makes 
conversation impossible. Loud music is 
fine — blaring is something else entirely. 
Smith, however, certainly enjoys the booze 



months of turning Smith down (I get 
than enough of him at school), I finally 
accepted an invitation lor a nigh 1 on 1 earlier 
in the week. We met up with his friend Park 
at a traditional Korean bar. These 1 love. 
You sit on the floor, get waited on hand and 
foot, and can enjoy a quiet conversation, 
often in the open air. This particular bar 
allowed us to sit on a platform on the roof 
with a nice view of the night city. 

But the place was too beautiful for 
Smith to enjoy for long. After being there 
only a half hour, he talked everyone into 
going to a night club. The place was dirty, 
loud, and packed with overweight Koreans, 

righ 

:, made it impossible to chat, 
but when I couldn't hear anymore either, I 
decided it was time to go home. 

I shouldn't have gone then, and I 
wouldn't have if I had known that there was 
a required outing later in the week- 

rt fighting over the door 



TV monitors for the lyrics (and images 
that generally have nothing to do with the 
song) and a big table in the center. You 
look through a huge book to select your 
song then belt it out in the quiet company 
of your close friends. I have to be drunk 
to sing — really drunk — and I wasn't that 



The t 



After I h 
;, many of v 



&gt;ke here isn't like karaoke back home. 
■ are karaoke bars, but mostly there 
hat translates into English as "singing 
s." These are small rooms with huge 



r of the school, Mrs. Gu, 

to hear your song," she said. I shook my 
head no, and told her in Korean that I don't 
like to sing. She told me in Korean that she 
does like to sing, and repeated her request. 

Everyone except me got up and sang. 
While the Korean teachers sang love songs 
(three in a row title Sa-lang-ham-ne-da. 
"I Love You"), pictures of sheep, people 
on jet-skis and naked baby boys dancing 
passed over the screen. When Mrs. Gu 
sang, everyone cheered. When Smith sang, 
everyone endured it. 

Instead of singing, 1 jus t paged through 
the book. The English section was large 
and surprising: Rage Against the Machine, 
Slipknot and Marilyn Manson were mixed 
in with Britney Spears and the Beatles. 

After two hours of paging through the 
book and turning down persistent requests 
to sing, we finally left. As we walked out 
the doors into the late night neon of Korea, 
Mrs. Gu stopped me again. "Next time, I'll 
hear your song," she said sternly. I smiled 
.in. I lidded home. 



Have something to say? 



Make your voice heard. 



letters@ipfwcommunicator.org 

or mail to: 



Walb Union, Ste. 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



e than 700 words long. Submtt yew 
&gt;ftheWtlbSt»rf«*«LMo*. 



The COMMUNICATOR 



Arts 



Performance • Music • Fine Am 




^/tay 



• Bringing PC users over 
from the dark side to 
Apple Computer may 
or may not be the 
best thing ever 

By Kelly Lynch 



Illustration by Kelly Lynch 



Apple Computer and Microsoft muIihvj have always been competi- 
tors at opposite iii.ls of ih-' spectrum, each with their own dogmas and 
systems, designs and beliefs. 

Apple's credo of "think different" &lt; hallengcd I he legions of Window 
users who denounced the Apple \l,n ititosh operating system as being 
nothing bul incompatible eye candy. 

Apple Computer, lor all its constant innovation and cult-like user 
base. began the I'C inarkel I or the novict 
similar to Coke and Pepsi: Coca-Cola can 
and like Coke, has made a lew blunders. 

Equivilant to Coke dunging its lotiuula, Apple failed to license ils 
operating system in the |*)7(K. whit h took a huge t hunk on! of the profit 
margin. At one time, thei ouipany actually competed against itself, with 
two factions both making separate systems aimed at different demo- 
graphics. It seems innov.it ion— what Apple is known for — is not without 
its price. Innovation, when it works, is new and rewarding; innovating 
failure is twice as bad as failure can get. 

Apple became a victim ol internal arguments and egos and has 
slowly reassembled and to operated like a wounded lighter coming 
back to the ring, knot king together gloves lull ol ideas, he lined by a man 
who once despised the Mat operating system, confident it would never 
work, bul is now its most ardent supporter Perhaps sieve lobs, the man 
who helped begin Apple ( omputer, competed with the Macintosh, got 
fired and came hack to calm the storm, is the example Apple wants most 
Windows ant! l'( users lo follow. Jobs wants Windows users to stop using 
their little grey machines ami have fun using technology, instead of falling 



► APPLE: PageA7 



'Hitchiker' rides away from source material, still a fun trip 



1 jumped on I he 1 til cruel Movie Database, 
possibly the most valuable film and television 
research tool at a |ourtiahsi s discretion, and was 
relieved when I found thai I louglas Adams actu- 
ally treated the (" 



lish In,, or it i.m tell tin in tbev are "a huupv bong 
who really knows where his lowel is," they will 
probably look al \ou like \ou just pried your 
thumbnail oil with rus.iv pliers. Hut if you find 
ariol her tan ot "llm b bikers t.uide to the Galaxy," 
their eves will light up. Suih is the beauty of cult 

When 1 first read that the "Hitchhiker's" 
was becoming a movie, I was really excited. 1 
can ailually say that the compendium of novels 
ol whii h the movie is based is my favorite book, 
and it's author, Douglas Adams, is my favorite 
author I was a fan since the year 2000. when I 
discovered the In si book in the series sitting on a 
lonely bnuksbell at Hyde Urol hers bookstore. 

The more I thought about it, however, the 
more I thought the movie was a bad. The books 
are my bible I was afraid that Hollywood would 
bastardize the pint, which is way too convoluted 
for a movie lis-, than three hours long There was 
1 the early I'lHUs that stayed 



tout hours 



i the plot, and all togethei 




Arthur's best friend. 
travel-researcher for the 
Hitchhiker's Guide to the 
Galaxy, a large computer- 
ized compendium of how 
to survive while traveling 
among the star. 

I was disappointed a: 
the treatment of Zaphod 
Hreeblehnx. the president 
ol i he galaxy He is a crazy 
hoheniian rogue, akin to 
lack Sparrow from "Pirates 
of the Carribean ' who 
steals a spaceship and 
an earth girj and cavorts 
around the galaxy look- 
ing for "the answer to the 
meaning of life, the uni- 
verse, and everything." 

Sam Rockwell pl.ned 
Breeblebox and made him 
a lexas yahoo who sounds 




HEART OF GOLD: From left to right: Sam Rockwell as 



I also reatl that there would be a new char- 
acter in the mime, one (bat was mil in any of the 
other incarnations of Hitchhiker's" (it was first a 
radio show, then a scries ol novels, then a TV seri- 
al, and also a short-lived stageplayl— Humma 



a strong character of the book and the serial v 
wonderful. Alan Hickman lent his voice (o the 
part. He managed to mix the weariness from 
his role of the Metairon (the voice of God) in 

"Dogma" and the loiileiiipt ol Professor Snape 



Zaphod Breeblebrox, Zooey Deschanel &lt; 
the Android (voiced by Alan Rickrr 
Ford Prefect. 

lot like tl 
President. He was mean 

and conspiratorial and a bulk, whereas the char- want the opinion of someone unfamiliar with. 

auer in the book is pisi -.elfish and clueless. the novels. 

I also didn't like i he ending, which of course My recommendation: See the movie if you 

I won't give away, because like all Hollywood like science-fiction, comedy, or both. It is goofy, 

endings, it is wrapped up in a nice little package, thought-provoking, and the special effects are 

The books weren't that trite. impressive. But then go and read the books. It 

, I hate comparing the movie to the books takes some time to finish all five novels, but it is 

instead ol judging it on its own merits, but I can- worth it. Trust me. 
not help it. Go read liogci Pberl's review if you 



'Medea' senior project delivered by Nickell's research, intensity 



does her thirst for revenge. 

The Williams Theatre brought Medea's 
insight and rage to li'lAV when it produced the 
play April 11 through May _• [he drama was the 
senior project of len Nickell. who played the role 



Vagina Monologues, she loves Me," "On the 
Town." "Moments." The little Coocbi Snorcher 

that r iiuld," "o l, "All m the liming. rhe Arms 

and the Man ant) Heiress, as well as plays al the 
.'Ilium playhouse. 

On first impression, .Nickell's expressiveness 
and animation arcquickb noticed She takes that 
vibrancy to the stage as well Medea's spite, incre- 
dulity, sarcasm and exclamations are well con- 
../ed by Nickell's energy, even through a mask, 



at her husband l.ison toi beii.njng then marriage 
by betrothing another women Medea resolves 
to murder this woman, her father Creon— who 
is incidentally the king— and also her and Jason's 
children. 

Hie pleasure of revenge- seeing the distress 
of her husband- is a more powerful emotion to 
Medea than loss ol her own children Because of 
bei ai lions and narrow remorse, some have iden- 
tified Medea as a witch. 

But Nickell doesn't see it that way. She 
empathized with the character, and even found 
that Medea's dci ision to kill her own children can 
be justified. Moieover. buripitles wrote the play so 
that Medea is suuiewhat ol a sympathetic cbarac- 

"We all can relate to problems in relation- 
ships,'" says Nickell 

Nickell enjoy etl playing the uncommon role 
of a female protagonist in a (. reek tragedy. "It was 
definitely an ego stroke," she admits, with a mock 
posture of importance. 

Euripides focused much of his drama on 
females and slave-, a practice rare in most classi- 
cal drama, and even modern drama, for that mat- 
ter, Nickell explains. 

Medea is an oppressed member of society', 

ies, "In 



■equal rights." walked strange," Nickell joked. 

lor this reason, Nickell says she appreciates Nickell says thai during the rehearsal and 
imputations Euripides' pla\ had lor women of performance of the play, she found herself saying 
ime and fur contemporary audiences things in Medea speak. After pieparing lor a pro- 
Part ol Nickell's acting process is to research deletion, she explains, "a diar.n lei's link' phrases 



! period and lifestyles 









she portrays. She likes io learn about the societal Nickell, who graduated this spring with &lt; 

philosophies of a time and place, because these theater majoi, will continue acting and would like 

the collegiate level alter she 



s often guide the personalis 



Nickell says Medea's methc 

but she also says it is slightly 
disturbing. 'There is definitely 
a pride factor there." 

Nickell unknowingly 
selected "Medea" to be her 
senior project during a dis- 
i with her advisor lane 



Wiedenhoeft helped her 
research (he role of Medea, and 
provided a character mold and 



rageout of suicidal despair she decides toget back 



Attention Students 



SUMMER WORK 

GREAT PAY! 

Flexible Schedules, Sales/Svc. 

All Ages 18+, Conditions Apply. 

Call Now! 

(260) 471-8682 



EH 



Pale, midwestern soul off to the 
City of Angels with dirty faces 



State of the Arts 

By Kelly Lynch 

klynch@ipfwcommunicalor.org 



To me, Los Angeles. Califor- 
nia is a long way away. It might 
as well be on the opposite end of 
the world. I've pictured myself in 
rainy London more often than I 
have in the City of Angels. 

I've been in Los Angeles 
many rimes before. I 
torn apart by killer 




alive by a fre.ik volcano, 
down by eaithquaki 

The truth is, I 
any farther west thi 
have potatoes 

And Los Angel* 
ies (movies 
the city's destruction) and soon 
will count me as a member of its 
smog-happy populace. 

Yet, it's only for a month 
and a few days. That's I lolly wood 
for you, fleeting, bright, burning 
moments of crazy. 

I recently became one of 
12 out of 55,000 people to win a 
special internship at Universal 
Studios, thanks to a little contest 
called the MasterCard Priceless 
Experience, sponsored by yes, 
the credit card company. 

OK, before you giggle about 
me winning a contest for an in- 
ternship, just know that this 
thing is not an average intern- 
ship where one becomes a pro- 
duction assistant slave and de- 
sires suicide as an alternative to 
working on movies. 

Or so they tell me. 

But, jeez, it's California 1 
We're talking this big crazy city 
hinged in the southern part of 
the state. It's a long ways from 
Fort Wayne, Indiana in more 
ways than five. 



So, what do I get to do? 
Where am I staying? How am I 
getting there? I'm not sure. 1 know 
they're fronting bills and I'm try- 
ing to go by train (cross country 
by train, Amtrak or no Amtrak is 
worth it) and I'll be surrounded 
by 1 1 other college kids who all 
feel as fervently and as passion- 
ately as I do about making films. 
And we had to prove it, by writ- 
ing a short essay and making an 
even shorter video. I thought for 
sure I'd blown the latter, all gooey 
and syrupy, talking existential 
like about the end of "American 
Beauty" as one of my favorite 
moments in film history. But, it 
worked. And I'm floored. 

Alas, right now I'm just 
plundering away 12-hour days in 
a coffee shop because everyone 
including the boss and exclud- 
ing me got fired and I've become 
Uber-Baritsa. In between mo- 
chas and homework-err, wait, 
college is out, but darn it sure 



Photo Illustration by Kelly Lynch 



doesn't feel like it-l 
get a little quirk of a thought that 
I'm going to Los Angeles to work 
on movies. I guess it won't really 
hn mi' nmil I'm there. 

Then I'll be the pale Mid- 
western boy who is corrupted 
by the city. Hopefully I'll get a 






and stigmas of the 1 
man, I'm going to be 
ton! I heard about tl 
rap songs!) 

I just hope I don't go from 
serving coffee in Fort Wayne to 
making it for the stars, unless it's 
for Avril shooting a music video, 
there can always be exceptions. 

It still hasn't yet hit me. Not 
yet. In fact, I don't think it should 
hit me. It's just something that's 
happening, an especially neat 
thing, but just an occurrence. Los 
Angeles? Fort Wayne? Maybe one 
day I can refer to both of them as 



Documentary probes history of 
adult phenom film 'Deep Throaf 

Classic skin flick's acting, plotlines examined in moral contexts 



The documentary "Inside 
Deep Throat" examines the 
course of the adult film indus- 
try in America through the 
window of a single film, "Deep 



edly profound effect of "Deep 
Throat" on the adult film and 
American morality. 

The premise of "Deep 



ality, "Deep Throat" made it a 
film motif, and with this came 
societal "chic" as a New York 
Times article called it. 

The only thing more 
absurd than the plot of "Deep 
Throat" was the film's act- 
ing. Even the movie's director, 
Gerard Damiano, admits that 
there was nothing profound 
about the film. For this rea- 
son, it is surprising how "Inside 
Deep Throat" gives Damiano 
and his film an undue pedes- 
tal. The documentary has it 
backwards. "Deep Throat" was 
a film that came at the right 
time; it was successful because 
of controversy-spurred curios- 
ity during a shifting in public 



cally, narrow-minded prosecu- 
tors and politicians bowdler- 
ized a good thing, and that the 
industry "Deep Throat" paved 
became a corrupted factory of 
money and power. Neither of 
these thoughts have much i 
rency in reality. 

The only parts of "Deep 
Throat" that are engaging are 
the personalities that escape 
the film's Michael Moore-styled 
narrative approach. Even still, 
the cameos by Norman Mailer, 
Hugh Hefner, Gore Vidal and 
Alan Dersowitz are interesting 
congruent. 



Throat' 

Lovelace, the film' 

her clitoris located at the back 

of her throat. Therefore, male 

fantasies of fellacio become 

validated by the fictitious cli- 

toral gratification a woman, 

like Linda, would receive by the 

once taboo act. Although oral 

sex was nothing new to sexu- 



Linda No doubt, "Deep Throat" 

was successful. Made on a bud- 
get of $25,000, it remains the top 
grossing independent American 
film ever made (it pulled in just 
over S600 million). "Inside Deep 
Throat," however, proposes that 
"Deep Throat" was artistic and 
socially important as more than 
just pornography. That, tragi- that it was fashioned from. 



The course of both 
the adult film industry and 
American morality indicates 
that the popularity of "Deep 
Throat" was nothing more than 
serendipitous and fleeting. 
While the film could be impor- 
tant as a small marker of the 
sexual revolution and the moral 
division America experienced, 



Renowned violinist Kelemen performs 
classical repetoire at Philharmonic 



Hungarian violinist Barnabas Kelemen, 2002 
winner of the International Violin Competition 
of Indianapolis, periormed unh ihe Fort Wayne 
Philharmonic on Saturday the 14th of May at 
the Embassy Theater. This was an encore perfor- 
mance for the 25-year-old violinist. 

Kelemen performed Ravel's "Tzigane" 



cally portray gypsy influence in their technical 
difficulty and musical fireworks. Not surprisingly, 
Kelemen has a "big portion of gypsy blood," 
said Edvard Tchivzhel, music director of the 
Philharmonic, so the violinist's choice of music 
was very apropos. 

"(Kelemen) has great talent. (He is) one 
of the great young violinists (of today)," said 
Ichizvhel. "Die orchestra enjoys (having him). 
He's a great friend and an inspiration to the 



1 

KELEMAN 



Kelemen performed an 
encore that held the audi- 
ence breathless. His one 
pause caused a chuckle 
in the auditorium before 
rippling arpeggios started 

Kelemen was per- 
forming on the 1683 
"Gingold Stradivari." 
Use of the Stradivari is 
one of the prizes from 



I uuipelill 
The 



performed Liszt's 
"Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2 in C minor" as a 

precursor to Kclcmen's lireworks and closed with 
Dvorak's "New World Symphony" (Symphony 
No.9). The symphony was done in tribute to 
the late Colleen Benninghoff, former director of 



Bill Gates, the former chairman of 
Microsoft, recently commented iti.it the success 
of Apple's iPod, an ever popular portable nip I 
music player, won't continue in the- long term. 
timiinc ili.it Apple has had its extreme high-, 
followed by extreme lows before Gates' ace in 
the hole is the lone, awaited I onejiorn; a much 
anticipated new operating system. 

Gates is referring to Apple giving birth to 
the market and at one tune being on top nl it. 
Now, Apple only holds .1 percent ol the home 
computing market and Windows, known espe- 
cially for its virus-prone software, has the rest. 

Interestingly enough however is that IK) 
percent of Microsoft employees own an il'od, 
much to the dismay &lt;ii higher-ups who ask that 
employees look into Microsoft's own alterna- 
tives. As a side note, Hewlett-Packard, who 
( (unbilled forces with Apple to utter il'uils tor 
Windows users has stopped filling orders for 
the nipt players, citing that itiev aren't selling 
enough \s ,i side note. Apple has no problem, 
but it's selling the same product. 

But does this entrenched battle between 
two companies really matter to the normal con- 
sumer, who may just simply want a machine 
to download music, type papers and talk to 
friends? 

Shouldn't a computer user's taste in tech- 
nology just be like his taste in cars? 

Yes, but remember, you can chose to drive 



same barbs: "Nothing is i nmpaiihle with t 
it's overpriced, flashy, everyone uses a PC, it's 
unstable... etc." 

Well, they're wrong. 

With all respect to the legular )oe who uses 
a computer just to do simple things, as long as 
you get what you're doing done, thai should he 
all that matters, but a lot of things can either 
make your tasks worthwhile or give you reason 
to rip your hair out. 

Recently a student in the ll'1-WWalb com- 
puter lab, a location on campus where Apple 
computers are actually utilized, rolled over Irom 
his friend typing away at a Windows machine 
and began poking at an IMac while all the 
Windows computers were being used. 

Within seconds, he was contused, opening 
hard drive folders and documents fumbling lor 
something that looked like home It wasn't ih.it 
he was trying in figure out how to use it. he was 
using his Windows based skills with which to 
use it. He popped in a (I) and lor live minutes 
looked for it on the hard drive and elsewhere. 
not noticing that the CD happily sat on ihe 
desktop, waiting to be used. 

"It's too hard," he said sliding away. He 
gave up. 

A few feet away, a girl c 



chipper. 

Human error can prevail in any situa- 
tion, but it seems to this journalist that the 
true human error is it, keeping the brain inside 
the heige box and thinking to cringe whenever 
Apple is mentioned only because it's different. 

Well, since when did everyone desire to he 
the same? 

Apple Computer makes its computers, its 
software and its products. Mueosoft makes its 
operating system and leaves (he computer and 
a bulk of software building to others. 

With its new Mae mini and the continu- 
ing suit ess o| il'ods, Apple is looking to appeal 
to people fed up with their old computers 
and make the switch. Computers are faster, 
continually user friendly. It 
. ,.., ... ■.,... 

the ladder l 

But the Mac mini could possibly be the 
worst thing in the world for Apple. 

As most Mac users will proclaim, they 
whole hearlcilly believe in iheir (IS, often evan 
geli/.ing its beauty and ease of use to friends 
and lamily, hoping to bring as many people as 
possible oyer to the light side. 

On a visit to Apple's flagship store on 
Chicago's Michigan Avenue store, an Apple 
addi( I jokingly, omineiiied m, i Windows Iriend. 
"The people here are several times more intelli- 
gent than the lest ol the world." 

Apples are currently known as "Instru- 
ments of the trade," not mere computers and 
isn't much ol the .harm of Apple being a user 
who feels like he has the world's best kept 
secret:' What happens when that secret gets out 
and everybody has a Mac? Could that make it 
less special, less innovative, less progressive:' 
•people would use the nearly 



frantically bemoaned that 
corrupted and had been lost. It was I 
and the situation sounded 



her cell phone 
iles were being 




invincible Macintosh OS, wouldn't that make it 
a better target lor viruses and inaleware? 

The rest ol the IT world lias done a superb 
job of ripping ofl Apple ideas for years, or 



product? You're reading . me right now I he fonts 
you use at home are Apple Iruelype fonts. The 
trackpad on your laptop? Apple invented (bat, 

Perhaps It's best that Apple remain the 
innovator, the creative think tank, the trade 

instrument and not a world wide conglomer- 
ate thug. And those 3 percent of us can remain 
happy with our content computing secrets, 
secure as others around us suffer the plight of 
Windows, cradling il'ods, making movies and 
hicalhuig easy in an elegant personal computer 
atmosphere. Can you use elegant to describe 
any other computer? 

Hopefully, Apple will remain the smart 
guy wliii gels copied off of in class, because as 
all the jocks in the business toss their products 
around and claim to be the bigger, better ones, 
we'll always know where the real answers came 



Do you like to write? 

Looking for a voice 
at your university? 

Do you want to bring 
the truth to thousands 
of people? 



NOW IS YOUR CHANCE. 

The Communicator is now hiring 

writers and photographers into 

paid positions. 



The editorial staff of The Communicator is looking for a strong 
writing and photography staff for the Fall semester of 2005. This 
year is a great year to be part of the staff— we now PAY per story 

and photo. Learn the fundamentals of journalism that would 

make you marketable for a career in print media, broadcast 
media, public relations or advertising. We will be holding tutorials 

and workshops over the summer to hone these skills for our 
writers, so be a part of the team! 

If you are interested in the possibility of defining the voice of 

IPFW's only student publication, 
stop by Walb Union, Room 215 to fill out an application. 

Leam the skills to give you a foothold 
on a communications career. 




TAKING APPLICATIONS NOW! 



TheGi.m.mi;nt(.ak&gt;k 



Features 



Wednod^MayUlOOS 




d they're often unwilling 10 take lesser paying jobs, 
dishes." as he says. 

Lobdell got .1 i&lt;»b with tin- /&gt;) liner Corporation as a factory 
worker, during "the days of factory row." in the late 1970s. It didn't 
last for long. 

"In the )9B0s. (with the) economic down turn, recession, 
Heagan Liking office— you know, trickle-down economics... it 
trickled down from the top, and I found myself without a job," 
Dan said, his voice gurgling, piobahh imm being a smoker. He 
lowers his head fori ;i moment, and I notice tlie constant shadow 
over bis eyes from his ball cap His eyes appear sullen; his face 



After being laid nil in I'.'liu from /olluer. I ohtlell went to 
Houston, Texas, with a friend from high school. The plan was to 
get a job and bring In- lamih down -honk thereafter. However, 
while down there hedis, overcd lie had a form of scoliosis, and 
had to return to Fort Wayne. 

Lobdell's second child du d onl\ three days after being bom. 
due to a heart defei t. Mis lather died around that time, loo, and he 
and his wife divorced because ol financial issues, [jjbdell thought 
about joining the Navy, but instead opted h&gt; nun his sister in Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida, to look for work. 

It was about this time Lobdell discovered he was bipolar. 
He thinks he'd been bipolar since that lust semesicr at Wabash 
College, when he says symptoms began. Back then, however. 
"(bipolar disorder i. schizophrenia, il 11 was diagnosed.it wasn't 
publicized like it is today." 

Returning to Fon Wayne for (be second time, he was hired 
on and laid off again by Zollner Corporation, what would eventu- 
ally be a total of three times. 

"Teal! (thenil my rollercoaster years, I Jan says of the 
earlyl980s. He blames part of his troubles on his illness, but 



Lobdell returned to IPFW in 1986 and earned an associate's 
degree in Organization, il Leadership and Supervision, "and at 
that time I thought that was adequate enough to get into the job 
force," he said. 



n electron n s di-.inb n business. Itvi 

"carnival atmosphere," but he really felt like one of the early entre 
preneurs he'd learned about in college. The company would enter 
a town, set up an electronics expo, and hopefully take in around 
$30,000 in one sitting. 

"I got the opportunity to see the west coast, southwest, the 
east coast, we basically followed the sunshine," he said. 

After becoming road-weary, and after a few broken prom- 
ises from Homier, Lobdell quit his job and 

started selling insurance in 1991. 

At this point, our waitress slaps an 
plication on the table, and I Ian thanks) 
I ask him about it; he's applying to beco; 
a manager. When I walked in, he'd been 
talking to a district manager for Denny*; 
don't have any restaurant background, z 
you can tell I'm a little leery'. Ibis is a very 
challenging restaurant on the weekends," 
he says, laughing. __ 

Dan takes a break from the timeline to 
give me a few more pieces of post-gradua- 

"I do believe in coincidence." he says oT the Denny's applica- 
tion, "(and) I'm a possibility thinker. I think in possibilities." 

"You've got to be a little more creative at 50 than you do at 
25," he says. "Thing, don't (all mm your lap easily, you knowwhat 
I'm saying?" 

Atone of his many menial jobs— this one at Gates Center at 
IPFW— some of the IPFW police named I-obdell "AJ Capone" when 

they came to pick up n ey. His fingernails have a little bit of dirt 

under them, and his hulking figure doesn't move much through- 
out our entire com ers.it ion, except lor his hands. He sits at an 
angle, one elbow often on the table, next to a copy of Men's Jour- 
nal. When he speaks, he looks at me a little like he's half asleep, 
except when his eyes flare when he's making a point. 

"When you're young..." be says, leaning in a bit, "you got 
potential, ability, raw talent, land) no experience. At 50, you got 
experience, you still goi potential and ability— but you might 
doubt yourself." 

"I'm telling my son right now." he continues, "'You better 
prepare for a rainy day. because Motorola might downsize you,' 
you know? You guys haven't had that. You've heard about it, but it's 
never happened to you. I've had thai happen to me, (and) that's 
the difference between a 50-year-old man and— what are you, 25? 
(I'm 23) — it hasn't happened to you yet." 

1 press him a bit further. 

"Life." he says totally, 'kind of beats you down." 

After living on disability, wotting menial jobs and marrying 
his second wife befme divorcing her two years later. Dan Lobdell 



returned to IPFW in 2003 to 
It'dbeen 15 years since 
"I felt like a dinosaur," he said. 
This reminds me of when I hrst 

at Denny's, and he'd been writing a it 



had laptops.. .so I wt 

skills were limited." 

I'm suddenly a 

tape recorder to the 



"When I was young, I 

thought I was going to be a 

great man. Today I just want 

to be a good man." 

— Dan Lobdell 



1 1 brought both a laptop and a digital 

"Will having a bachelor's degree at age 
50 help my employability," Lobdell contin- 
ues, "Or will there be more nonverbals?" he 
says, referencing a silent discrimination he's 
felt at job interviews because of his age. 

" (But) 1 don't feel threatened by young 
people anymore," he says. He talks about 
graduation, about seeing everyone around 
I viewing them as "competition." 



says. He's 

ain't the main man," he says. . 

Eventually, I ask him about some of the seeming contradic- 
tions in his interview: lor instance, he lalks about being a possibil- 
ity-thinker, and later listing his disadvantage- in the job market 
and that lie recognizes his limits. 

He laughs and says, ' I guess it's kind ofa potpourri of a sum 
total of experiences." 

Before he leaves, he talks to the district manager again, and 
we exchange goodbyes. He asks me not to make him look bad. I 
start compiling my notes, and he pops back in the room again: 

"I got one more thing to say: self-improvement is an inside 

Dan was searching for meaning after graduation; something 
common amongst graduates, something I'd been doing, too. How- 
ever, what Dan had and I didn't was a lifetime of experience — an 
experience that had already led him to his own truths and some 
healthy cynicism about the world. There was a juxtaposition of 
thepost-graduatinn idealism .ilimii the workforce with a man 
who'd already been there tenfold. 

I realize then what Dan bad been trying to do for me; he'd 
been trying to explain the cosmos. It no longer seemed right to 
describe him as talking in contradictions, because he may not 
have been able to speak in any other terms. 

Dan is thinking about graduate school as an alternative to 
the workforce. He still holds die possibility 'hat he might be a 
senator one day, a childhood dream of his. But he's also a self-de- 
scribed realist. 



THECOMMirNU'AUiR 



Sports 



o 

Wtdnewlflji May 1*2005 



IPFW's British connection 



The IPFW men's soccer team hm, bed i .,-.i 
season with an 8-9-1 overall record I'hey fell 
just one game shun i&gt;f a .500 season. However, 
the season wasn't a total disappointment for 
Terry Stefankiewicz's program. 

Senior Peter llachaj recorded 128 saves 
in 18 games, only giving up an average ui 1.57 
goals per game. Me was also named ll'IVV 
Athletics Male Athlete of the Year. 

On the offensive side, the Mastodons saw 
massive output form a talented group of fresh- 



3 of the under- 



iii ll'IVV athletics. 

Assistant coach Mi 
pleased with the perforr 
classmen in his fifth season as an assistant. 

"We've seen all three of our English kids 
grow maturely." he said. "Between the three. 1 
think they scored 29 of our 38 goals. So, they 
contributed a lot on the soccer field." 

The Mastodons were led by 5'9" forwi 
Chas Parry, who kicked in 13 goals in 18 games 

Parry is a freshman OLS major hailing 
from Manchester, I ngland. Parry alone conrrib- 
uted more than a third ol the offensive threat on 
the way to the team's total 38 goals. 

Head coach letry Meiankiewicz was very 
elated with the scoring performance Parry dis- 
played last season, and hopes he will continue to 
improve steadily over the tiesi three seasons. 

"Chas is a gifted, gifted goal scorer. He is 
one of those guys thai is always in the righi plate 
at the right time. He knows how to take advan- 
tage of situations," sielankiewk/ added, "I think 
il he begins to work harder to get the ball and a 
little harder on defense where he'll get the other 



Webb from Gloucester, 




a lot of college guys come in their freshrr 

ami are very cocky," he stated, "I think he was a 
little hil cocky hoi he didn't teally know what to 
expect Now he knows whai we expect from him 
and I ihiuk he trusts the , o,u liing staff now." 

Senior midfielder llillv -man also com- 
mented on Meckel's kit king ability lie has one of 
the strongest left Toots I've ever seen." 

I coach Ian l.uya recruited ihethree 
i, seeing Parry and Webb play dur- 
i, and scouted Beckett at a recruit- 



Hriii-.li pl.n 
ing the sea 
ing combine, 



Photo by Brenda Jones / biones@ipfwtommunicator.org 



WEBB: Freshman midfielder Victor Webb is part of the European scoring trio for 
the men's soccer team. Webb scored six goals in 2004 for the Mastodons. 



in second in points behind 
ckett assisted the Mastodons 
j game winning goals of his 

Harper established ilecketl as having one 

of the mote powerful kicks on the team this year 

When asked what about Beckett sticks out the 

mosi, IT.uper simply replied. "His leli fool, he's 

inon." 



j finish second i 



premiere season 

goals and three 

team in scoring, Parry (28) with 23. 

"Victor plays in the middle of the field this season with 

where he's not suppose to score a lot of goals. 
He's more of our general. I le gets the ball 

hardnosed and he's not captain of the teai 
i real positive," Stefan kiewicz noted. 

" iyt pay 



i ilunker, 



The t 

threats that they required. 

The skipper finished with high aspirations 
for next season "It's huge, bul ii's great because 
we have them for three mure years. I think we will 
only get better." 

IPFW Soccer Showcase in August: 

The IPFW Soccer Showcase is reluming on 
Aug. 18 to 20 to Fori Wayne. Moth the men's and 
women's N( AA Division t national champions 
will be competing In the three day event. 

Back-to-bat k national champion Indiana 
University will play 1ICIA Saturday Aug. lit) at fi 

pan I he wnmrn In ill l ;\nl ic 1). line who. .ipluivd 

an overtime victory over UCLA for the national 
championship lasi season will face oil against 
Virginia Thursday, Aug. Ill at 8 p.m. 

Joining Noire Dame are women's teams 
from Purdue. Wisconsin Milwaukee, Xavler, 
Toledo, Del'aul and Oklahoma. 

Also on the list to participate in the show- 
case are the men's squads bom Northwestern, 
Michigan Slate, Kentucky, the University of 
Illinois-! hicago, IIIPUI, and li'l Was host. 

The Mastodons will be in anion on Friday, 
Aug. 19 on field 1 at the I'lc* I hey will be tat ing 
Xavier ai (i p.m. I play Northwestern at 8 p.m. 

Indiana high school, will al.o he i ompeiing 
in the showcase. Ion Wayne Snider, Homestead. 
Carmel, Canterbury and North Central are all 
expected wauiieipate on field 2 during the 



1 



Mastodons progress 



Soccer Showcase was and how well both of 
IPFW's soccer teams performed. Though 
both teams lost 2-0, they competed excep- 
tionally well against superior competition 



d helped draw a record-breaking crowd the si 



of 15.000 to the three-day event. I said 
the event not only set a precedent for the 
school's athletes, but coaches and person- 
nel in the athletic department. 

Reflecting on the 2004-05 athletics 
season, for the most part, that precedent 
was met and progress was made. The 
women's volleyball team was 24-10 and 
lependent Championship for 



n three years 




The baseball ie.un is finishing up iis 
best season as a Division-I school and has 
easily surpassed its highest win total as a 
program. The men's volleyball team had 
a "down year" but was still one win away 
from going to the National Final Four in 
California. 

But there were substandard pro- 
grams that reflected the inexperience and 
talent level of the fourth year Division! 
school that IPFW is. 

The basketball teams combined for 
12 wins, Softball was just 14-35 and nei- 
ther golf program finished high in outings. 
F.ven the aforementioned soccer teams 
finished below .500 in the win column. 

But that's why Dane Fife is now 
coaching the men's basketball team rather 
than Doug Noll. Athletic director Mark 
Pope said he hasn't given softball coach 
Keith Fisher enough tools to build his 
softball program: when he does, maybe 
more progress will be made. When a 
program is in its second season at IPFW, 
progress ;" 



i the injury bug bite a 
like it did last year to his women's soccer 
squad. But I bet he saw progress. 

Progress doesn't always have to be 
an impressive win-loss record. 

It's a player's attitude, desire, inten- 
sity, effort and passion and a coach's moti- 
vation and fire. It's a group of individuals' 
ability to come together as a team and 

► PROGRESS: Page 82 

LEONHARDT: Senior Ian Leon- 
hardt was an intregal part of 
the men's tennis team, who lost 
in the first round on the MAC 
Tournament. The tennis team is 
indicitive of the progress that 
IPFW athletics is making and is 
of only two sports who are not 
considered an Independent. 



Looking for 
a comeback 



Softball senior makes best of season 
ending ACL and meniscus injury 



was 5 years old. But, on one 
February day, doing what she 
loves forced her into an unex- 
pected spiral. 

As she practiced in the 
gymnasium of Hilliard Gates 
Sports Center, the senior fielder 
for the Mastodon softball team 
made a sharp stop and received 
an even sharper pain. The pain 
came from a torn ACL and 
n her right leg. 
When I got up, I didn't 



hurt as bad. It was a lot different 
kind of pain,' 1 said Downhour. 

The injury put a pos- 
sible end her softball career, 
but for Downhour, the tur- 
bulent ride had began only a 



Downhour joined the team 
after the season had started 
and sometimes took the spot of 
players who had been with the 



"Whenever players walk 

n during the middle of the sea- 
on, it is kind of hard for pco- 
ile who have been there and 



Jul ; 



spirit. According to Downhour. 
the winter workouts were going 
well before she went down with 
the injury. Less than a month 
before the season began, a 
sharp stop turned into a poten- 









i after playing softball and 
running cross-country. She 
attempted io get in contact with 
softball coach Keith Fisher, but 
her calls were not returned. 
Shortly there after, 



The physician then conducted 
an MRI, where the ACL tear 
became 100 percent evident. 
"It is always devastating 



refreshed Downhour's ( 

at a Division I softball career. 

"He asked me if I played 
any sports in high school," 
noted Downhour. "When I told 
him about softball, he took me 
upstairs and I had a meeting 
with Coach (Keith) Fisher." 



1 Fisher. "But she was 
always positive." 

Downhour's surgery took 
place during Spring Break in 
March. After missing some 
early season outings, including 
the team's Spring Break trip to 
Florida, Downhour caught back 
up with the team, still trying n&gt; 
joined fulfill a leadership role expected 



smooth. ► DOWNHOUR: Page B2 



,' ""■''■' 



C^3 



A peek at what's next 



Justin Kenny offers a preview of the 2005-2006 IPFW athletic season 



Cup of J 



of r.ilcm in the country. 



The i 



M.tsiuilon .11 h lii 11 program in ter 
wins with lis 24-win scis.in l.isl fii 
men's basketball team, despite the ti 
of the firing"! former coach Doug Noll « 



am stmc^led w hit 

Probably the biggest reason for the sub-par 
season was the youth and inexperience 
that was prevalent on the team last season. 
With everyone being a year older and 



David Simon, will continue his basketball 
career in the pros, while the second- and 
third-leading scorers have transferred. At 
present, Fife has recruited seven players to 



fewi 



e expected to be added 

s trying his 






gel the best players he can. despite getting 
a very late start in the recruiting process 
because his hiring was in April, already 
Of Coach past the initi.il signing period. In general. 
this year. the 2005-2006 season could be a rebuild- 

ing season for the Mastodons, with many 



o look forward to the 



In general, the 2005-2006 

season could be a rebuilding 

season for the Mastodons, with 

many new faces everywhere 

you look onto the floor. 



Carouthers to be 
the veteran leader 
of an otherwise 

young team. 



er.ible t.dcni &lt; 



Women's volleyball 

The Mastodons are coming off a 
24-10 record last season, easily the most 
impressive of all sports at IPFW. They also 
compiled an 1 1 -2 record during four spring 
tournaments in April. The team loses 
three seniors to graduation, but it looks 
as if everyone else wilt be back in what 
could be an even better campaign for the 
Mastodons. Senior middle back Fabiana 
Souza is easily one of the best players 
among the Independent schools, and Troy 
University transfer lirika l.citzke will be eli- 
gible to contribute in a big way. Head coach 
Kelley Hartley has also signed three incom- 
ing freshman that could contribute imme- 
diately, including Concordia Lutheran star 
lessica Miller, who was named First Team 
All-State two consecutive years. 

Men's soccer 

The soccer team fought to an 8-9-1 
record last season, but could be in position 
to improve (hat record. The big loss is grad- 
uated goalkeeper Peter Hachaj, who led 
the nation in saves per game last season. 
Another big loss could be Drew Lear, who is 
believed to be transferring to the University 
of Jacksonville. Despite the potential losses, 
the soccer team should be in good hands 
with goalkeeper Michael Knitter and oth- 
er;,. Ihe problem efliild. be, ,1 coring glials, 
but sophomores Adam llcckeil and Chas 



is from the Fort Wayne area, an area known 
for top-notch golfers in the state. The team 
had no seniors and only two juniors on the 
roster last season, which explains the slow 
start. Head Coach Jeff Marsh seems to be 
bringing in some highly-talented players, 
including Blackhiiwk Christian graduate 



Women's golf 

The first season of women's golf at 

IPFW was an experience for the players 



ed to instill the "Grinnell" system with the 
team, a system used by several Division III 
schools. The system utilizes substitutions 
every 30 seconds to a minute and press- 
es speed and 3-point shooting. The sys- 
tem was a disaster with the team and was 
scrapped midway through the \ 



and Marsh. The t 

but did have son 

their 4 lh -place fit 

State Invitational 

Weimer 

and Nicolle Geyer 

All-Independent ti 



Carlisle was named Newcomer of the 

bright spots, notably Year by the Independent Women's basket- 

i at the Youngstown ball lie. id co.ichcs and sports information 

April. Senior Vanessa directors and several other young players 

Stephanie Hoppes also contributed. However, a couple prom- 

Lvere each named to the ising players have also decided to transfer, 

iam this season. Marsh putting the program back on its heels as it 

i golfers next season to concentrates on the coming season. 



r lnuldirig ]i 



Men's basketball 

The men's basketball team ba 
way to a 7-22 record last season, 
considering the year before ended i 
campaign. The highlight of the si 



Men's volleyball 

Head coach Arnie Ball and "Arnie's 
led its Army" finished the season with a disap- 
)t bad pointing 13-17 record, but fell just one win 
a 3-25 short of reaching the NCAA Final Four, 



would have been 
&gt;f Utah State in December. Next JPFW had made it. The Mastodons beat 
t will look a lot different both on the W 1-seeded Loyola, Chicago to reach the 



takes the. reins of the program and will and will no doubt t 
attempt to lead the team and the athletic but it will have to 
program in general i 



■arly gutted last year's 



► PREVIEW: Page B6 



injuries and pitfalls. It's a coach who can establish a 
friendship with his players and a player who can respect his coach. 
It's being down 15 points with three minutes left only to lose by 



:venth inning only ti 



_- I [.I r 






e back I. 



When talking to coaches, athletes and athletic department 
officials throughout the year, they always mentioned the word 

progress Inn had variations of it. # 

Tennis coach Eric Burns said there were times when his play- 
ers stepped up and won matches or made them competitive to 
the very end. Baseball coach Hilly irernon said it's been all facets 
of the game that have improved for his program. It's cross country 
and track athletes Ashley Uiu hie and I auien Simpson's attitudes 
that push the runners in break each oiher's school records. It will 
be Coach Keltey Hartleys volleyball players' determination to get 
through lough off-season workouts to defend their championship. 
Fife says it will be his team's passion and hard work that ultimately 
determines its progress. 

The list goes on and so will IPFW athletics' progress as the 
school matures into a Division -| adolescent. Bui it's a slow process 
and that maturation can only happen with the careful guidance of 
Pope, the smarts of his coaches and ihe drive of their players. 

The progress made at II'IAV this season took it a step higher 
up the Division! ladder and a pinch closer to conference affilia- 



Maybe n 



s that took IPFW ii 



t year at this ti 



.mil keeping the scorebook. 



slow start, Downhour finished the semester on pace to potentially 

finish her criminal justice major by December. 

When she wasn't in the classroom, she was in the weight 
room. And rehab became her second way of life. 

"She is doing very well with her rehab. She is right on sched- 
ule to return. She knew what to expect of her rehab. She is a 
good patient, a good athlete and great person to work with,' 1 said 
Wrage. 

However, some a. km hum family, friends and Wrage may 
have opened the door for a third chance for the Royal Center, 
Indiana native. It was through those she knew that Downhour first 
realized that she might be eligible for a medical red shirt, giving 
her one more year of eligibility. 

"I talked to her aboui ii initially. 1 like lo give my athletes ever 






e doctors' i 



s completely h 
t shirt. "You apply to the NCAA, 
y thai 'yes, it is a season ending 



noted that another prerequisite is that you 
can only play in less than 20 percent of the contests that season. 
The NCAA currently has Downhour's information and applica- 
tion for the red shirt. Wrage expects to hear back on the decision 
■ In July. 
Whether the extra year of eligibility comes through or not, 



Downhour knows that she 

has come to love. But that does not mean she will look 

completely positive mind; 



n in the sport that she 



OFF THE COURT 



This week, Dan sits down to talk to DANE FIFE, head coa 
2005-2006 Men's Basketball Team. 



I have had a lot of people tell me that my hairdo looks like that of a 90-year- 
old man and I need to change it, but I like looking like a 90-year-old man. 



s reading your old plaj 






r nickname \f 



Spjj 



king with the n 



ethat of a90-y 



it anymore. 



DF: I used to spike my hair 
media relations employee t 
I have had a lot of people tell me that my 
change it, but I like looking like a 90-year-old man. 
DV; Have you earned any other nicknames since then? 
DF: It is hard to derive a nickname from Dane. I guess my nickname is "coach,' 

DV 41 ID. you played foi I tic G&amp; ln-i.il ' K I here a nickname that yon wouldn t mind earning due 
to your specific coaching style? 
fc« DF: 1 don't know that I would like to earn a nickname, but I would like to earn a reputation such that 
my players come out and work very hard and make it hard on the other team. And that would be the 
reputation, if we could get a nickname out of that, that is fine with me. 

DV: Who is the toughest guy that you ever had to guard? 

DF:AJ. Guyton, who I had to guard everyday at Indiana and I never figured him out. He was really 
quick and really explosive and just understood how to play the game. 
DV: If you could go one-on-one with any NBA player, who would it be? 

DF: I would have to say LeBron (James). UBron is a good player, but I think he is too young, too 
young to handle the old man in me — although I'm not that old. 
DV: Who would it absolutely not be? 

DF' Shaq You gel ciiMjhl on Sli.iq in tin- low noil and yon might ..:, i-.ell | cist let it go. 
DV: You get the same chance against any of your players here at IPFW, who gets the lucky draw' 
- DF: Oh, I think I would beat every single one of them because that old man factor comes into play. I 
I't think those guys can handle all the tricks of the trade I would throw at them. 



/:Whoii 



DV: One thing that you can do 
1 DF: There is an ongoing battle 
lete. And I'd have to say that I ' 
and Jeremy and my mom will t 



n Fife? 



it of all of the Fifes. 

ween the five of us, including my mom, about who is the best attv 

: the best athlete and I was the best competitor. But Dugan 



1 DV i 






DF: I really like Kenny Chesney right now. I'm 

DV: OK, you have your music playing, what d 
1 DF: I don't have anything in the kitchen cabii 
have Orange Juke in the fudge 

DV: If they made an action movie about yout 



[DV: If th 
DF:Wha 
DV: Are 
punch rr 
DV:Wh( 
DF: Sylv 



iu the hero or the villain? Or a little bit of both? 

/lama little bit of both I told my players that there will be a lot of times they w. 
I hope to end up the hero in most people's minds, but I know I will end up the villain t&lt; 

guy. Ever since Rocky, I have enjoyed Sylvester Stallone. 




E23 




The Communicator sports staff voted on the most productive and impacting 
male and female athletes of the year. Athletes received nominations with cor- 
responding points based their performance and influence to their respective 
programs. The top athletes received 10 points, and each position folllowing 
received one less point than one prededing it. Each Communicator sports 
staff member formulated their own top ten list for both the male and female 
athletes, and the results were combined and tallied. These results are com- 
pletely subjective and are those exclusively of the IPFW Communicator 



Matt Zbyszewski went into his 
senior season with a chip on his shoul- 
der. The volleyball star had done nearly 
everything in his career, including 
being named an All-American in 2004. 

But there was one thing that 
Zbyszewski never did — go to a Final 
Four. In fact. Zbyszewski had only seen 
IPFW advance past round one in the 
postseason once, in 2003. That team 
tost to Lewis in the semi-finals of the 
MIVA tournament. 

This season, the team led by 
Coach Arnie Ball and Zbyszewski, 

1 away 

shocking 
nationally ranked Loyola-Chicago ii 
Hie MIVA Semi-Finals, 3-2. 

In 2004, Zbyszewski had his 
best season, averaging 5.57 kills per 
game in his Ail-American season. He 
also had 165 digs on the season. Yet in 
2005, his numbers got even better. For 
that r&lt; 

Male Athlete of the Year. 

"It's really nice to be recognized by p&gt; 
pie outside of the volleyball community, ' 
Zbyszewski. "It never seems to me like I 
have any kind of influence on anyone. 1 
play volleyball, right?" 

Despite the mediocre regular seaso 
Zbyszewski helped the Mastodons turn on the 
jets when playoff time came around. A victory 
over Findlay in round one started Hie tournament 
off on the right foot. The captain had 26 kills 
victory. 

A week later, Zbyszewski helped boost IPFW past 
Loyola. The next night, the team fell to Ohio State, 
leal ing them one win away from a Final Four trip to 



One of those boosts came in a regular season loss to Loyol. 
where Zbyszewski put up a career high 36 kills in the match. 

Zbyszewski was also a Communicator "Mastodon 
Playmaker" six times this season. He was the only athlete who 
was a "Mastodon Playmaker" every week. 




Volleyball Team. 

as also named MVi'nl the women's volley- 
ImI! leani tot llie 2(104 season. IPFW athlet- 
ics recently selected her as the female ath- 
lete ol theveat lor the HUH :!(H15 season. 
Mir led the Mastodons (his season with 

5.18 kills pei match and ,« hitting nei 

centageof.232. 

The volleyball team won the 

Independent Tournament this year 



inn d. 08 points per game. The 
Belo-Horizonte, Brazil native 
was honored with the title of 
Independent Tournament MVP. 
She also was second in dins 
with 408 behind libero Peachy 
Jankowski's 458 this year. Souza 
led the team in service aces with 
44 and block solos with 29. She 
also registered 79 block assists on 
the defensive side of the net. 

In the Independent 
Championship game against Texas 
Pan-American, Souza recorded a 
double-double with I I kills and 14 digs, 
She recorded a match-high :'.' kills ami 12 
digs in the semi-final man b against South 
Dakota State. 

Souza has been a member of the 
IPFW women's volleyball train tor the past 
three years. She has rei Mided I 7111 kills and 
129 dtj 
Souza ti 
she has been a Mastodon. 

She was named to the MVP of the 2002 
Purdue Invitational Tournament as a fresh- 
In her sophomore year, she v 



earned the award, and was surprised she v 
selected over all the other female athletes on 
campus. "I wasn't expecting ii at all. lot being , 
and having so many great athletes in IPFW," snt 
said, "I was very happy and very excited to get it." 

Souza was honored to receive female' athlete of the year 
from both The Communicator and IPFW athletics. "I feel like 
I do my job and I help the team a lot. So, I was very grateful to 
n bulb awards,'' she finished. 



Men's 
Top 10 



IH 



one of, if not, the best ath- 
lete to ever compete for IPFW. 
But a knee injury in May 2004 
slowed the center's progress 
his senior year and put a dent 
in his numbers comparable to 
the2003-04 season (18 ppg, 9.8 
rpg). However, he still aver- 
aged 16.6 points, 6.9 rebounds 



The junior outfielder from 
Elkhart Indiana led the base- 
ball team among batters over 
100 at bats with a .377 aver- 
age. He leads the team with 44 
RBI. 5 home runs and 80 total 
bases. Kirk also has an impres- 
sive .580 slugging percentage 




Peter Hachaj 

Finished his senior season 
IPFW as the nation's leader 
per game with 7.11. 



Peter Campbell 

Campbell debuted with the 
Mastodons basketball program 
this season, Finishing second 
on the team in scoring with 
11.1 points/game. A career best 
performance came at Kent State 
with Campbell scoring 28 and 
down 10 rebounds. 




Serdar Sikca 

Sikca spent much of the year 
ranked nationally in a couple 
of categories, including hitting 
percentage. He ended up UI 'F ' 
I he English soccer player hating percentage of .417 with 
lead IPFW in goals scored (13) 297 kills. Serdar was named All- 
and points (28). Parry also MIVA First Team. 
sioreil three game winners for 
the Masindotis ihis past sea- 



Chas Parry 




Ryan Steinbach 

The senior shortstop has 
compiled a .324 batting average 
and a .926 fielding percentage 
this season. He leads the team 

RBI with 42. Steinbach is also 



Ryan Keena 

Keena helped the baseball 
team to another 20 win season 
with many key statistics. Keena 
recorded 56 hits, including 10 
doubles in his junior campaign. 
Notably, Keena was ranked high 

being hit by pilches. 



for 



HjJt 

Dustin Fremion 



son. Included in those hits were 
four doubles, three triples and 
a team high five homeruns. 



EDI 

Ian Wilson 

Wilson was the captain 
of the Cross Country team. 
Among the accomplishments 

new IPFW record in the 10K at 
33:02.60. The time was eleven 
seconds faster than the previ- 



Ashley Ritchey 

Ritchey spent the fall in 
Cross Country and spring in 
Track breaking many more 
school records. In the fall, she 
broke an 18-year old record in 
the 5K with a time of 18:53.00. 



» 




Jenna Beachy 

Beachy has amassed a .327 
hailing average over three sea- 
sons. She has pounded out 129 



she led the soft- 

tl a .360 average 

acid .i . "&gt;Mi slugging pe rcentage. 




Women's 
Top 10 



E 



Lindi Bankowski Courtney Nicley 

The setter for the 2004 worn- One of two seniors, Nicley 

en's volleyball team, Rankowski started 22 of 28 games and 

recorded 872 assists over 27 averaged 8.3 points and 3.3 

matches. The senior also con- rebounds per game last season. 

tributed 31 kills and 18 blocks She had a season high 15 points 

during the season. She was on December 2 against Akron. 



Nicley scored ) 






■ t IPFW. 



fourth in blocked 



Cynara Martins 

The second of the women's 
volleyball team's Brazilian 
imports. Martins was second 
on the team in kills with 292. 
In her freshman year, Martins 
also had 35 service aces and 
335 digs. 



Johnna Lewis-Carlisle 

The Independent Women's 
Basketball Sports Information 
Directors and Head Coaches 
named Lewis-Carlisle 

Newcomer of the Year. She tied 
for scoring average on the team 
with 9.6 points per game from 
260 points in 28 games as a 



m i.q 

Ashley Johnsor 

Johnson was the only player 
to start all 28 games for the 
Mastodons. Manning the point 
guard position, she was sec- 
ond on the team in points (9.5), 
fourth in rebounds (3.3) s 
second in assists per game ( 1 
and steals (42). She was a 
tops in minutes played with 
27.3 per game. 



Ire-lllIMM 



If ari Butler 

Butler was one of tw 
Mastodon Softball players 1 
start and play in all 47 games. 
Her batting average of .280 
ranked her second on the team. 
In addition, Butler finished the 
season with a fielding percent- 
age of .938. 



^^^J 



E^3 




January 29, 2005 



f»August21,2004 



played Indiana, while the 
en batllcd Miami (Oil). The 
t also featured a rematch of 
1)03 National Title game. 



nplonship. Ltd by 



12/07 

Scoring argu.ihh rht- l&gt;ie.i; is ' upset in team 

I history, ihe men's bjsketh.ill k.uii knocked off 
Uiahsuie.it die Menu iri. ill uliseum. The Aggies 
advanced in tlii-;;ri[)=i National" 



I Final so&lt;ut statistics for 2004 
I released h\ the NCAA show that 
il'l Wejialiender 1'eler lladiaj led 
the naiion in saves with 128. The 



his sixth season at IPFW. 
40-119 in his time with IPFW and 
I during the 2004-2005 i 




IPFW competition captured 

■ From fighting the Irish to striking out Grizzlies, defining moments of the 2004-2005 season caught on film 




TOP LEFT: Byron Malone takes the ball 
up court while being guarded by Notre 
Dame's Chris Thomas. The Mastodons 
were defeated by the Irish 73-45 at the 
Joyce Center in South Bend. Malone was 
3-5 from behind the arc to end up with 
9 points on the night. The contest is the 
first of a three-year match up between 
the two teams. This season, the Irish 
are traveling to Fort Wayne to face the 
Mastodons in the confines of Memorial 
Coliseum. 

By Eugene Harding/ 

sports@ipfwcommunicator.org 



TOP RIGHT: Brittany Saylor slides after 
a ball in a home game this season. The 
freshman from New Haven accumulated 
one goal and one assist in 19 games this 
year. Saylor is one of many underclass- 
men who earned playing time on an 
injury-ridden 2004 squad. 

By Brenda Jones/ 

3ipfwcommunkator.org 

MIDDLE LEFT: Fabiana Souza spikes the 
ball in the match against Wright State 
October 23. IPFW swept the Raiders 3-0 
in the match. Souza had 17 kills and 15 
digs for the Mastodons on the night. 
On the way to a 24-10 record and the 
Independent Tournament Championship, 
IPFW defeated eleven teams by way of a 
3-0 clean sweep. Souza will be returning 
to duty at middle hitter next year as a 
senior. She will be looking to repeat as 
both a member of back-to-back Indepen- 
dent Champions, and as repeat All-Inde- 
pendent middle hitter this year. 

By Brenda Jones/ 
bjones@ipfwcommunicator.org 

MIDDLE RIGHT: Beth Harmon delivers 
a pitch in the first game of a double- 
header against Oakland. Harmon fin- 
ished the season with an 8-1 1 record, 
with 56 strikeouts and 78 earned runs 
in 1 27 innings of work from the hill. She 
ended up with the lowest ERA on the 
team with a 4.30, and held opponent 
batting averages to .303. Harmon won 
more than half of the Mastodons wins 
this season, winning five more games 
than she did in 2004, and dropping her 
ERA 0.50 from her sophomore season. 
Harmon has one more year of eligibil- 
ity left, and will be back in the rotation 
again next year as a senior playing for 
Head Coach Keith Fischer. 
By Chad Ryan/ 
cryan@ipfwi 



BOTTOM: Peter Hachaj warms up before 
a game last Fall. Having started in all 18 
IPFW soccer games this season, Hachaj 
recorded 128 saves, averaging 7.11 a 
game. He led the NCAA in saves per 
game and only gave up an average of 
just over 2 goals per game in his career 
at IPFW. Hachaj has been offered to play 
professionally abroad and is considering 
options to play in the United States as 
well. He was recently named the IPFW 
Athletics Male Athlete of the Year as 
voted on by the coaches and administra- 
tion of the athletic department. 

By Brenda Jones/ 

bjones@ipfwco 




basketball coacli ends with the litre- at former Indiana *• 

player and assistant Dane File. When he started the job _ , . 
on April 1. Fi IV- became the youngest coai.li of his kind 

at any NCAA Division [ program. Upm* 



2004-2005 year in review^ 



By Dan Vance &amp; 
Anthony Maurer 



The Soccer Showcase once again opened up the ath- 
leiic season with perhaps its most impressive showing to 
date. The showcase, held August 10-12. hosted siv men's and 



A highlight of the event w.is.i reman. liol i lie Jul n M.-n's 
National I ilk- Game beiween Indiana and Saint John's. 

The soccer (earns slood out in the tall, each completion 
successful seasons under head coach ferry Mefankiewic. It 
was the Hall of lame coaches third year leading the women 
and the twenty-second year at the helm tit the men's pro- 

gram. The women finished &lt;i- I.J, knocking off three Horizon 6.7 rebounds this y. 
1 eague opponents. 

On the men's Side, a slew of foreign-horn players 



The men's basketball team had a note- 
worthy year. Between the firing of Doug 
Noll and the hiring of Dane Fife, interim 
coach loe Pechota helped the team to a 7-22 

David Simon lit up the headlines again, 
being named All-Independent First Team 



"Having a chance to 

play for the MIVA 

was really a big 

deal," said Mike 

Daiga. "In the fourth 

game, we just made 

some errors that we 



helped usher in the n 

9-9- 1 . Players from overseas scored 29 of the t&lt; 

Senior goaltender Peter Hachaj led the nation i 






"I never look at those things, then my coach told me I 
was seventh' noted Hachaj. "From that day. I started look- 
ing. And everyday, we play games and it gets higher and 
higher. It's always exciting." 

Despite the success of the soccer program, it was 
the women's volleyball team that highlighted the fall sea- 
son. Shortly into 'the season, the team hosted the first 
annual IPI-W Volleyball Invitational, defeating Oel'aul ,\m\ 
Evansville. 

Junior Fabiana Sou/a had another career year, compil- 
ing hl'l kills to lead the Mastodons and coach Kelly Hartley 
to their second Independent National I il It- in three years. 



t NBA Pre-Draft - 

Camp in Chicago. "Overall 1 think things 

wet a well this year. I just wanted lo win some games and use 

this year to get bat k in the swing ot playing." 

The women's basketball team knight multiple obsta- 
cles on the way to a 5-23 record this year. The relatively 
young team saw great output from guards lohlllia Lewis- 
Carlisle 1*1.1) ppg, J I steals) ami Ashley "A)" lohnson (9.5 ppg 

Seniors Verea Bibbs and Courtney Nicely engraved 
their names in the Il'l W annals in rebounds and scoring 
Bibbs is fourth all-time in rebounds with fiZB, and Nick \ 



i posted a 24-10 record, the best at the u 
I he girls later posted an 11-2 record during the n 
tional season in the Spring. 



sity. 



i finished ! il? iH-ft Ml\ &gt; 




Attention IPFW Musicians 



Do you play a musical instrument? If so, IPFW's pep band, 
The STOMP Band, is looking for YOU! 




We are looking for students who play flute; clarinet; saxophone (alto, 

tenor, and bari); trumpet; french horn; trombone; baritone, tuba; or 

electric or bass guitar. Students must be interested in having fun, 

supporting IPFW athletic teams, and participating in other university 

events. Perfection is not required, just enthusiasm and a desire 

to be a part of the growing student life opportunities on campus. 



Our first rehearsal for the fall is Sunday, August 21, 

from 1 :30 to 4 p.m. in Gates Center 104. No commitment is needed yet; 

just come meet the STOMP Band members and director and start playing 

music! If you plan to attend the rehearsal, or are interested but can't make 

that date, e-mail weissnea@ipfw.edu for more information. 



Please visit www.ipfw.edu/athletics/pepband 

to browse the FAQs, meet the director, 
and check out the songlist and tentative schedules. 



Don't just play... STOMP! 




senior Man Zbyszewskl, who 
was also named First-Team All- 
Conference. The Mastodons 
do return fellow First-Team 
All-Conference member Scrdar 
Sikca, who will be looked upon 
to lead IPFW back Into die elite 
of men's volleyball. 



e the head- 
way next season that he has 
made already with the team. 
The slrongpoinl of ibis year's 
h.im was hitting. 

The Mastodons were 
never out of a game as long 
as Ihey were swinging the bats 
well. Several home games went 
longer than three hours due to 
the excellent hitting of IPI-'W 
players, 

Gernon will most likely 
concentrating on the pitch- 
ing In the off-season, which 
was at times impressive but 

Sleinbach and Dustin Fremlon 
also have an outside chance of 
being drafted In the 2005 MLB 



Women's Softball 

The softball team strug- 
gled through another season, 
ndfng its 



iled amount of arms began 
to (ire, especially after several 
rainnut games were scheduled 
in the latter half of the season 
to make the last month stacked 
with games, 

seniors to graduation and 
also reportedly will lose junior 
pitcher Beth Harmon. It is also 
been rumored that several 
other players could leave the 
program. 

Despite this, the 
Mastodons will be return- 
ing senior lenna Beachy, who 
led the team in nearly every 
offensive category for a second- 



of improvement later i 
season. While the men's team 
will feature several seniors next 
season, the future of the pro- 
gram resides in the talented 
underclassmen that saw a lot 
of key action this season. As of 
now head coach Eric Burns has 
signed one player to the pro- 
gram for next season, one of the 



ished 11-22 on the season, but 
went through its good and bad 
spots during the season. Several 
times the women were able to 
string together some victories, 
yet at other times they would 
o long losing streaks. 



The t 



i will t 



i from this 
year and will also be welcom- 
ing in one of the top players 
in Indiana in Northrop High 
School graduate Sachi lanek. 



tially only) toss for the team 
will be captain Ian Wilson, who 
helped lead the young squad ii 



but helped the rest of the team 
While Wilson most likely 



i thanks to his lead- 



Track and Field 



Sophomore Ashley Ritchey 
records and broke records c 
tiimomly throughout the s 



e 



Now, 

all your incoming 
calls can be free. 




HEven the ones from 
Mr. Can't Take a HinU 




Now, 

when people are wasting your time, they're not wasting your money 



Unlimited CALL ME Minutes 




US. Cellular 

Qnmet with vqu\ 



H a Hi a gwnrai nqjrw itega loca nMmk comas xt! rtfeMy i 
*ne dfct C20O5 US. CBU* CcrporWn 



i oaSfflg paoage h* g ecnM oner aft) an toyw oanunsaenfce xjeamt an W» ml ngkM[indS39A5iiNEpeLM 

n crvv to Runty ch«% he* utfwg* owv man ml taraam »&amp; F^^ 

i* ft to net mi nwi* use t* serwe ansauw aaxptra at tu tons aw cvxlusOrv minora app^SttWrBbfe* 



