WEDNESDAY, I What's in a name, p 2 I Alghanislan. p. 4 

September 26, INSIDE: OPINiONS FEATURES 
2001 | I 



[Jons beat Chicago, p 6 IFrolemity suspension, p. 8] 

SPORTS ! NEWS One free copy per 






The 

Indiana University — Purdue University Fort Wayne 



* ^ ^^^^^ M. il C www student jprw.edu/-slupaper 

W) Communicator 

•*„. ▼-^* - Indinim 1 Iiii7)prsih/ — Purdnp 1 Inijwrfiitv Fnrt Wmwp 




Volume 36, Issue 6 



News Briefs 

Women's studies promotes 
Tahirih Justic Center 

The Zonla Club of Fort Wayne, with the sup- 
port of IPFW's Women's Studies program, is 
sponsoring a presentation on the Tahinh fustic 



Cassie Slekly, an Indiana University 
Bloominglon graduate who recently completed 
her internship al Ihe Center, will share her views 
of Ihc Center's work. 

Tahinh Justic was created in 1997 by Layli 
Miller to address the acute need for legal servic- 
es of immigrant and refugee women who fled 
their native countries 1o seek protection from 
human rights abuses. Named after a scholar who 
fought for women's nghls in an oppressive 
Middle Eastern society in the mid-19lh century, 
il offers legal advocacy in three primary areas: 
gender-based asylum, Afghan refvigee assistance 
and violence against women. 

All legal services provided by the Center are 
free, however funds are needed lo carry on its 
service. The community is invited to attend and 
to support its services. 

For information, call Carol Butler at 486-6002. 

ACPL workers to petition 
on campus this week 



syslem will be on campus throughout the t 
to gather signatures for the petition lo gam 
approval for ACPL's multi-million dollar expan- 
sion and renovation project. 

Petition carriers will be on campus each day 
this week between 4:30 and 7:30 p.m. at an area 
near the sundial and Neff Hall. 

Faculty and stafl ol IPFW will be among those 



be property owners in Allen County. 

ACPL has 30 days lo gather more signatures 
than those who oppose the project, who also will 
be gathering signatures. 

Health Career Day at 
IPFW Oct. 10 

The IPFW School of Heallh Sciences invites 
high school students lo Health Career Day Oct. 
10, in the Walb Sludent Union from 8:45-11:50 

Academic and professional representatives 
from nursing, dental hygiene, physical therapy, 
radiography and many olher medical and Ihera- 
py fields will be presenluvg. 

Dclails concerning the program can be 
obtained from IPFW Admissions at 481-6812. 



Accounting and finance 
to host seminar Sept. 28 

The IPFW department of accounting and 
finance will host j seminar on Friday. Sept. 28. in 
Neff Hall, Room 137, from 11 a.m -noon. 

The topics, "Dealing with a Difficult Stock 
Market" and "Tax-Ad vanlaged College Savings 
Plans," will be presented by Maneesh K. Sharma, 
Ph.D., and Thomas J. Diem, financial advisor for 
Ramond James &amp; Associates, Inc. 

Hore d'ocuvres and refreshments are planned. 

Send reservation requests lo sharmam@ i pfw edu 



Weather 



Today 

Showers 
High: 72 
Low: 57 

Thursday 

Showers 
High: 70 
Low: 54 

Friday 

Mostly cloudy 
High: 72 
Low: 52 



Professors call for cautionary 
stance at forum 



By Todd Hamm, News Edilor 

As United Slates serviccpersons deploy to 
Afghanistan and the Middle East region, several 
IPFW professors are warning against seeking 
hasty and unplanned retaliation for the Sept. II 
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center Towers 
and the Pentagon. 

The professors. Van Coufoudakis, professor of 
political science and dean of Ihe School of Arts 
and Sciences; Bernd Fischer, professor of history, 
chair of the department ol history and acting chair 
ol Ihe department of philosophy; Jim Lulz, profes- 
sor of political science and chair of Ihe department 
ol political science, and Alan Sands trom, professor 
of anthropology and coordinator of Ihe 
Anthropology Program, were the featured speak- 
ers at two rounds of discussions last Tuesday and 
Thursday for IPFW's "September 11: The Tragedy 
and the Challenge" forum. 

The call for immediate revenge is uncalled 
for," Sandslrom said He eiplaineo thai America 
must first accurately delermine who is responsible 
for the attacks, 

"What we can do right now is stay informed. I 
would be patient and critical. 1 think we can solve 
(his problem, but not by the way they're going 

Sandstrom added he believed Ihose responsible 
should be arresled and pul on trial. 

He said a large scale invasion or mass killing of 



suspected terrorist would go along with what 
and how the terrorists want America lo respond. 

"Let's show the terrorists we're not like them. 
Let's not go in and kill Ihem. That's exactly whal 
Ihey want us to do." he Said. 

Coufoudakis agreed with Sandstrom's senti- 
ment. "The question is not whether there will be a 
retaliation." said Couloudakis. "It's when, how 
and ,i gainst whom." 

He added that America's response lo the 
Iragedy Iwo weeks ago must be effective in terms 
of adequately punishing those responsible for Ihe 
attacks. 

Many in the nalion and abroad lay the blame 
on Osama bin Laden, who has publicly denied 
responsibility for the incident. 

In lerms of how a war, like Ihe one President 
Bush is currently ivaging against terrorists and 
those who harbor them," Fisher believed America 
must re-think and re-evaluate its intelligence 
gathering techniques. 

Fisher said Ihe nation has lo take inlo consider- 
ation what types of intelligence gathering might 
work in a war ol this lype Fisher said the govern- 
ment must decide whether to employ modern, 
stale of the art intelligence gathering methods or 
Ihose used in the past He said that if Ihe war is 
foughl in Afghanislan, modem techniques will 



Jtlw 



,-llectiv 



5 then 



udimenlary Ic 
See Forum, p. 8 





Pholos by Denniez Zhie. Photo Edilor 



Faculty Art 



"A Great Association" now on display at the School of Visual and Performing 
Arts Building Gallery through Oct. 24, features the work of IPFW department 
of visual arts associate faculty. Top: "Untitled (m)" by Lee Morse, a drawing 
fundamentals professor. Bottom: a row of paintings and designs by several of 
the artists. 



Lecture tackles gender 
issues, role complexities 



By Andrew Welfle. Reporter 

During an Anthropology Club-sponsored lec- 
ture on Wednesday, Sept. 19, IPFW modem for- 
eign languages professor Kaul Galoppe spoke on 
a subjeel he has spent a great deal of time and 
effort researching, the "ScKualion" and gender 
theories of Jacques Lacan, a French psychoanalyst. 

In the prcsenlation, titled "Nobody's Perfect. 
'From Some Like il Hot' to Lacan's Sexuation 
Theory; Gender Confusion as the Trademark for 
Ihe Sexual Revolution in the Twentieth Century," 
Galoppe explained gender issues and their com- 
plexities and how Lacan interpreted Ihem, 

Of his theories and research, Galoppe said 
"Lacan takes Freud [psychosexua] Iheoriesl and 
incorporales Ferdinand do Sassure's theories on 
linguistics." 

He explained lhat. according to Lacan. "gen- 
der is not based on physiological factors. The 
body is imaginary and gender is constructed 
beyond Ihe dichotomic (divided) variables: 
male-female, masculine-feminine, man-woman, 
gay-straight." 

During his presentation. Galoppe used Iht — 

*_».» r^., Ik.. lu^il fri.x.L, "tL-itnn I iL-n il Mnl 




Photo by Denniez Zhie, Photo Editor 
Van Coufoudakis, dean of the School of 
Arts and Sciences, left, and Alan 
Sandstrom, anthropology coordinator, 
right, discourage IPFW students, facul- 
ty and the public from a hasty retalia- 
tion for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks at a 
forum held Thursday. 

Feminist Amy 
Richards to 
speak Oct. 15 

IPFW Women's Studies, in honor of its 25th 
anniversary, welcomes Amy Richards and her 
presentation, "Of Barbies and Boycotts. Young 
Women. Feminism and Ihe 
Ihe Walb Sludent ' Union 
Ballroom at 730 p.m. A book 
signing and receplion will fol- 

Richards is co-founder of 
the Third Wave Foundation, 
Ihe only national 



organ 



for 




between Ihe ages of 16 and 30 

She is a contributing edilo: 

to M&gt; magazine and has beer 

a consultant lo the Ms. 

Foundation for Women and Voters lor Choice. 

A graduate of Barnard College in 1992, 
Richards has launched a variety of public educa- 
tion campaigns such as Why Vole? and I Spy 
Sexism. She serves on Ihe Council of Advocates 
for Planned Parenthood NYC and on Ihe board ol 
Choice USA. 

Richards was named one of Ms. magazine's 21 
Young Leaders for the 21 si century. She has writ- 
len numerous articles for Body Outlaws, Lislen 
Up, The Nalion, Bust, Ms. and countless other 
pub I ica lions. 

She co-authored "Manilesta- Young Women, 
Feminism and Ihe Future" with Jennifer 
Baumgardner. Gloria Steinem said that in 
Manifestn, "The authors have sorled out the fruits 
of this wave of feminism, intended and unintend- 
ed, media mess and trulh for a new generation." 

See Richards, p. 8 



is from the 1959 rr 



, "Some Like il Hoi." 



In Ihe movie, Ihere are Iwo men who, in order 
lo hide oul from the mob, dress up like women 
and join an all-woman band. 

Jack Lcmmon's transveslite character. Daphne, 
is attracted to Joe E. Brown's character, Osgood. 

"On Ihe surface, it seems like a man and a 
woman attracted to each olher— a normative rela- 
lionship," Galoppe said. 

"Aclually, il is two males, so it is a homosexual 
relationship in Ihe real, which Osgood defines as 
'an imperfection.' rather than an obstacle." 

Galoppe said Ihe movie illustrates Lacan's sex- 
ualion theory in Ihe light that the unconscious 
docs not know anything about sexual differences. 

He explained thai "Lacan's sexualion lheor)| 
resists dicholomic labels such as normal-deviant," 
such as those portrayed in Ihe movie. 

"Normative behavior cists together wilh all 
other possibilities and- all contain symploms of 
subjectivity rather than normal or abnormal man- 
ifestations of sevuality," he added. 

Galoppe said Lacanian thought has paved the 
way for related, but newer theories, like feminism 
and "queer theory." 

See Lacan, p. 8 




Photo courtesy www.Iacan.com 
French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan, 
pictured here in 1971 smoking his 
famed Culebra cigar, was the topic of 
IPFW professor Raul Galoppe's 
Anthropology Club-sponsored lecture 
last Wednesday. 



Page 2 The Communicator 



Letter to the editor 





What's in a name? 

Depends on where you are 

By Heid! Saliba, Editor 



expected Ihis kind o 



Editorial Board Contact Us! 



Editorial Policy 



Opinions 



Page 3 The Con 



What's up this week 

Wednesday, Sept. 26 

Campus Ministry Stafl Prayer Meeting, noon-i2:30 p.m., Neff 257 ' 
Pagan Student Alliance meeting, 7:30-10 p m., Walb 114 and 116 
Delta Sigma Pi Evening with the Dean, 530-830 p.m., Walb Ballroom 

Thursday, Sept. 27 



Friday, Sept. 28 

InlerVarsily Christian Fellowship group meeting, 6—11 p.m., Walb C21 

PI Main Club, noon-130 p.m . Kelller Hall 246 

Hispanos Unidos leadership conlerence in Chicago, Saturday, Sept. 29 

United Sexualilies Museum Days, Sunday, Sept. 30 

Delta Sigma Pi Pledge meeting 5-9 p.m., SB 1,68 

Delia Gamma meeting, 5-8 p.m., Walb 114-116 

Campus Ministry Money Mgmt., 3-1 pjn., Walb 110 



., WalbG21 

Wednesday, Oct. 3 

Campus Ministry Staff Player meeting, noon-12:30 p.m., Nelf 257 

Campus Ministry Board meeting, 6-730 p.m., Walb 114-116 

Pagan Student Alli.into meeting, 7 VI- m P m W.illi .'22, 224 and 226 

United Sexualilies Prism meeting, 6.30-930 p.m., Walb 110 

Saturday, Oct. 6 

Campus Ministry at Gates' home, 7-8:30 p.m.. Small Group Building Relationships 
Delta Gamma Anchor Slam, 7 am -3 p.m.. Gates Gym 
United Sexualilies CLBT Dinner Dance at Grand Wayne Cenli 
International Student Organization Cedar Point trip. 8 a.m.-3 



r,6p.m 



midnight 



Sunday, OcL 7 

Delta Sigma Pi Pledge meeting, 6-8:30 p.m., SB 168 

Pi Beta Phi, 5-9 p.m. Walb Union Rooms 222 and 226 

Campus Mimstn Monev Me.ml , 3-4 p.m., Walb 110 

Phi Kappa Theta meeting, 6-10 p.m . Walb 110 

Campus Mmistri Cimceri ul 1'raver and Praise, 7-9 p.m., KT G32 



Wednesday, Oct. 10 

Campus Ministry Staff Praver meeting, noon-1 230 p.m., Neff 257 

Pagan Student Alliance meeting, 7 30-10 p.m„ Walb in and 116 
United Sexualilies Prism meeting, 630-930 p.m., Walb 110 



Think twice before acting with vengeance 

Editor's note: Vie following letter was contributed byTerry Dougherty of ITS, who received the 
item through his email. It was written Sept. IS. 77ie letter is part of this week's special focus on 
Afghanistan and its people. It is reprinted with permission. 

I've been hearing a lot of talk about "bombing Afghanistan back to the Stone Age." Ronn Owens, on KGO 
Talk Radio today, allowed that thus would mean killing innocent people, people who had nothing to do with this 
itrocity, but "we're at war, we have to accept collaleral damage. What else can we do?" Minutes later I heard some TV 
pundit discussing whether we "have the belly to do what must be done." And I thought about the issues being raised 

specially hard because I am from Afghanistan, and even though I've lived here for 35 years I've never lost track of 
what's going on there. So 1 want to tell anyone who will listen how it all looks from where I'm standing I speak as one 
who hates the Taliban and Osama Bin Laden. There is no doubt in my mind that these people were responsible (or the 
rodty in New York. I agree that something must be done about those monsters. 

But the Taliban and Bin Laden are not Afghanistan. They're not even the government of Afghanistan. The 
Taliban are a cult ol ignorant psychotics who took over Afghanistan in 1997. Bin Laden is a political criminal with a 
plan. When you think Taliban, think Nazis. When you think Bin Laden, think Hitler. And when you think "the people 
of Afghanistan" think "the Jews in the concentration camps." It's not only that the Afghan people had nothing to do 

ilh this atrocity. They were the first victims of the perpetrators. They would exult if someone would come in there, 
take out the Taliban and clear out the rats nest ol international thugs holed up in their country. 

Some say, why don't the Afghans rise up and overthrow the Taliban? The answer is, they're starved, exhaust- 
ed, hurl, incapacitated, suffering, A few years ago. the United Nations estimated that there are 500,000 disabled 
orphans in Afghanistan-a country with no economy, no food. There are millions of widows. And the Taliban has 
been burying these widows alive in mass graves. The soil is littered with land mines, the farms were all destroyed by 
the Soviets. These are a few of the reasons why the Afghan people have not overthrown the Taliban. 

We come now to the question ol bombing Afghanistan back to the Stone Age Trouble is, that's been done. The 
Soviets look care of it already. Make the Afghans suffer? They're already suffering. Level their houses? Done. Turn 
their schools into piles of rubble? Done. Eradicate their hospitals? Done. Destroy their infrastructure? Cut them off 
from medicine and health care? Too lale. Someone already did all that. New bombs would only stir the rubble of earli- 
bombs Would they at least get the Taliban? Not likely. In today's Afghanistan, only the Taliban eat, only they have 
e means to move around. They'd slip away and hide Maybe the bombs would get some of those disabled orphans, 
they don't move loo fast, they don't even have wheelchairs. But flying over Kabul and dropping bombs wouldn't real- 
ly be a strike against the criminals who did this horrific thing. Actually it would only be making common cause with 
the Taliban-by raping once again the people they've been raping all this time. 

So what else is there? What can be done, then? Let me now speak with true fear and trembling. The only way 
bin Laden is to go in there with ground troops. When people speak of "having the belly to do what needs to be 
done" they're thinking in terms of having the belly to kill as many as needed. Having the belly to overcome any moral 
qualms about killing innocent people. Let's pull our heads out of the sand. What's actually on the table is Americans 
dying. And nol just because some Americans would die fighting their way through Afghanistan to bin Laden's hide- 
out. It's much bigger than that folks Because to get any troops to Afghanistan, we'd have to go through Pakistan. 
Would they let us? Not likely. The conquest of Pakistan would have to be first Will other Muslim nations just stand 
by? You see where I'm going. We're flirting with a world war between Islam and the West. 

And guess what: that's bin Laden's program. That's exactly what he wants. That's why he did this. Read his 
speeches and stalemenLs. It's all right there. He really believes Islam would beat Ihe west. It might seem ridiculous, 
but he figures if he can polarize Ihe world into Islam and the West, he's got a billion soldiers. If Ihe west wreaks a 
holocaust in those lands, lhat's a billion people with nothing left to lose, that's even belter from bin Laden's point of 
He's probably wrong, in Ihe end the west would win, whatever that would mean, but the war would last for 
years and millions would die. not just theirs but ours. Who has the belly for that? bin Laden does. Anyone else? 

Tamim Ansary, 

Elizabeth Britlen Nilson Depression Research Clinic Department of 

Psychiatry &amp; Behavioral Sciences Stanford University School ol Medicine Stanlord CA 94305-5723 









Exposure to UV-Rays from tanning beds or the sun greatly 
increases the risks of premature aging and skin cancer. 



SUN MIST TAN has revolutionized the way to get a tan. 

Our Mist-On Technology gives you a beautiful tan 
without harmful UV exposure. 



Get the look you want without the worry! 



qddq [MfeO fern! a 

7551 W. Jefferson Blvd. /Enale Rd. Wt ** 



commended &amp; Owned 



7521 W. Jefferson Blvd./Engle Rd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46804 

219-432-8848 

Hours: 
Mon.- Fri. 9AM-9PM, Sat. 9AM- 7PM, Sun. 12PM-7PM 



&lt;$ 









» - u r^r'i°^'° 



iiiiii' 



Features 





Photo contributed by Terry Dougherty 
In this photo from the 1970s, Terry Dougherty is seen teaching 
students in Afghanistan during his time as a Peace Corp volun- 
teer. 



Timeline 

Contributed by Terry Dougherty 



Afgh 



anistan at war 

ITS; guest writer (or The Communicator 



"What was more important in the world view ot history? The Taliban or the fall 
of Ihe Soviet Em pin-? A few ■ilirred-up Moslems or the liberation cil Central 
Europe and the end oi Ihe cold war?," said Zlugniew Bre/ezinski, a former 

inal Security Advisor. 
Quole from Taliban, p. 130 by Ahmed Rashid 

The Wars in Afghanistan: 

1973, Zahir Shah ousted by his cousin Mohammed Daud 

1978, Communist coup and murder of Daud 

1979, Soviet troops invade Afghanistan 

From 1982 lo 1992 some 35,000 Muslim radicals from 43 Islamic countries joined 
Ihe Mujaheddin (freedom lighters) in l hi- light against (he Com muni.' I lakeoi it 
la bin Laden was one of them. 

Soviet's withdraw leaving behind puppet government ol President 
Najibullah 

1992, Najibullah's government is overthrown by warring (actions 
l"sn Alchjni-l.in-lr.uned Islamic militant bombed Ihe World Trade Center in 
New York, killing sii people and injuring 1,000 

l**l Tj I it'.! i) (N mien is I ti.'in religious school, m I lie Northv.W f-'ronlier of 
Pakistan enter Ihe fighting 

19%, Ihe Taliban cap lure Kabul and murder Najibullah, Ihe former president, 
who had sought refuge in the Uniled Nations compound 
1998, the United States launched a cruise missile attack on terrorist training 
camps, of Al Qaeda (the Military Base) of Osama bin Laden following terrorist 
bombings oi two US embassies 
December 31, 1999 - a senes of terrorist plots lo disrupt Millennium celebra- 

Scplember 11, 2001 - hijacked passengei 
suicidal terrorists lo destroy the twin toi 
York city and lo cause massive damage 



rliners are used as guided m 
rs ol Ihe World Trade Center 
the Pentagon in Washington 



sites by 



Afghanistan during peaceful times 

An 1970s essay by Terry Dougherty, ITS Senior Programmer 
Analyst and former Peace Corp volunteer 

The days are hoi and dusty The green of Ihe earth wilts 
under the glaring rays of the noonday sun, but Ihe morning 
and evening bring rrlreslune hiireies. The cool waters of irri- 
gation bring new life to the withered plants. Rugged moun- 
tains stand out. defiant of man. against the cloudless sky or 
shrouded in the.dark clouds of a coming storm. They dare 
men lo discover their hidden riches Below the mountains are 
lazy valleys, friendly 
to man. Here man 
and beast, land and 

son to create fields of 
wheat and rice, fruit 
trees, collon, cows 
and sheep. 

From Ihe dusty 
land and wandering 
streams, man has 
organized fields 
where water flows 
from one to the next 
with seemingly little 
effort. Out of plenti- 
ful mud and scarce 
trees, he has fash- 
ioned houses lb.il are 
dry when it rains; 
warm when the 
weather is cold and 
cool during the 
hottest days of sum- 
mer. Men have lived 
under these moun- 
tains for a thousand 
years Their cilics 
stand above the sur- 
rounding fields on 
top of an ever-rising 

mound of clay. As an old house is finally washed to the 
ground, a new house is erected on top of the old and so it has 
been since people arrived in this valley. The present city lies 
atop the burial mound of the preceding generations. 

Hidden in Ihe surrounding hills are the remains of other 
people, no longer tending these fields. For some reason, they 
moved on or died and their hill is no longer growing. Under 
some of these hills are marble columns. Ihe remains ol Mogul 



kingdoms. Under others he Ihe victims til conuuerors and 
marauding nomads Alexander the Great passed through 
with he; army. Genghis Khan murdered the inhabitants of 
entire villages for iheir Buddha worship. Archcologists have 
discovered Buddhist moiiaslenes in every area and the two 
Buddha's of Bamiyan were too great ever lo be destroyed or 
hidden. Today, nowhere can a native Buddhist be found and 
the people care not at all tor Ihe history of Ihe hills. Their 
religion is different now and beside- thiv-e nlher people 
lived under the same mountains, tended the same fields and 
built houses oul of the same mud. Too Utile has changed for 
the past lo seem interesting or important. 

The pleasures of the 
people are simple 
and the pursuit of 
happiness is unhur- 
ried. Students, 
enraptured by the 

to the attempts of 
their teachers lo 
enlighten them. 
Teachers spend their 

Ja v* plavine. toothall 
with the students. 

while away Ihe 
hours watching Iheir 
cows and sheep 

the public 




nds: 



.1. Then 



mi need lo hurry. 
Both problems and 
pleasures will wail. 
There will always be 
Photo collage contributed by Terry Dougherty another cnanci ,. Li/e u 
Natural views of Afghanistan during the 1970s show what was not exciting but it has 
then the world's tallest Buddha (left). It has since been bombed iis pleasures, ploas- 
by terrorists. "re* thai would be 

lost in excitement. 
What excilemeni there is comes unexpectedly and is quickly 
over, such as a chance encounter wilh two dogs fighting in 
the street or the killing oi a chicken lor the evening meal. The 
pleasure ol Ihe moment is important. The pasl is forgotten. 
Life will go on unchanged in Ihe future. 

The mountains remain unconquered. but man and ani- 
mal, land and water, live on in pleasant harmony. 



Next week: Focus on Afghanistan continues with a photo essay and brief reports 
civil rights and the status of women in Afghanistan. Also, look for a profile interview 
n IPFW student leader from Bangladesh who is a Muslin 



Matthew Street Band Rocks 



By Jonah Cnsmore, Staff Writer 

Excellent lyrics and great 
jams are two elements sopho- 
more Mall Hughes said he hopes 
students trom IPFW will capture 
from the Matthew Street F ' 



band since Ihe band's conception 
nearly two years ago and has 
stood by his project through 
name change*, artistic Jilli'rc-nces 
and 15 member modifications. 

"The music has good con- 
tent and (here is a lotol substance 
in our songs, which is something 
music has been lacking these 
days," Hughes said, adding thai 
the substance in their music 
comes trom using personal expe- 
riences, such as relationships and 
jobs, as inspir " 

l Street 



liand that has led it to win talent 
shows They have also submitted 
Iheir song "Say and Do" for the 
Extreme Essentials CD, a compi- 
that has led to notoriety to 

"The album was going lo 
cost 53,000-1,000 to make, but we 
made a deal wilh our producer 
He has a crawl space in his base- 
ment that is filled wilh five or six 
Ions ol dirt, and we are going lo 
move this dirt so he can add nn lo 
his sludio Because we are doing 
this, we won t have lopav Un the 
CD." Hughes said. 

The album is projecled to 
have 12 tracks and will be avail- 
able al Borders, all Wooden 
Nickel stores and the Firefly 
Coffee House in December Unlil 
then the Matthew Street Band's 
"Say and Do," "don't Believe," 



n/matthi 



Even with their album on 
the way, Hughes said the best 
way for people to appreciate Ihe 
Matthew Street Band is to see 
them perform live shows. 

"To understand any band, 
you really have to see them live. I 
think part ol being a band is pul- 
ling on a show and if you can't 
put on a live show, then you 
shouldn't be making music any- 
way," Hughes said. 

The Matthew Street Band's 
reputation of tarrying out a good 
live show has led lo the band 
pla\ing venues such as Naked 
ClavOle, where Ihe band is per- 
forming on Sept. 30 and the 
Firefly Col fee House, where they 
are performing on Oct. 12. 






['"'"") 






1 


fctH 


" v flK 


I 


■Fl 


i ' 




1 


■M 


St j 




■i 


t«£ti 


tm~ s . K 


• 


i 


\ 


Wf'r 





Photo by Jonah Cnsmore, staff nntet 
e Matthew Streel Band will be performing at the Firefly Coffee House Oct. 12. 



Local Entertainment 
EVERY Sunday Nite! 



Naked Clay Cafe 
COFFEE HOaSE 




Futons/Day BeOs 

Entertainment Centers 
n Sofa Bed Computer V 



Presenting dorm fiirniture that leaves you money for tuition. 



HMW 



MATTRESS &amp; FURNITURE 



WAREHOUSE 




®l 



IM/A'J.M: 



912 LINCOLN HWY 

(219)749-5710 

NEW HAVEN 



. , ,,:mij( i ranw ai 



Features 



Page 5 The Con 



Up close with Brian Miller, SAB president 



Ihe student activities board. 

Hardworking, dedicated, motivated, depend- 
able, involved, outstanding and open- minded are 
all qualilies lh.il describe Miller, [f there is one 
word lo describe Miller, it would have lo be 
involved. A native ol Furl Wavne and graduated 
from Carroll High School, Miller has been an aclive 
student since his arrival al IPFW. 

Prior to accepting his current office, he 
worked (or The Communicator, first as sports edi- 
tor and later as advertising manager. 
Unfortunately, ho had lo make a choice of whether 
to conlinue working for The Communicator or 
exploring new territory with the Indiana - Purdue 
Student Government Association (IP5GA). At 
IPFW, one cannot serve on the newspaper staff and 
the IPSGA staff simultaneously Miller believes that 
he has made the best decision and is grateful to Ihe 
student body who elected him into office. 
According lo Miller, he is willing lodoall he can to 
fulfill the expectations and demands of the student 
body to Ihe besl ol hi', ability. Here is a portion of a 
recent interview with Miller: 



in about 33 hours.There is a lot of planning and 
preparing that has lo be done before an event can 
take place. This job is all that you put inlo il; and f 
put in a lot of time and a lot of myself. 



u gelling out of helping the si 



HG: What responsibilities c 



C wilh your posi- 



BM: When I accepted Ihis position (vice president 
of programming), I was automatical ly made presi- 
dent of the Student Activities Board, the two posi- 
tions coincide. I am responsible for planning Ihe 
event calendar for ihe 2001-2002 school year. Also. 
! have a budget that I have to work with in order lo 
provide a mixture of family and student program- 
ming for the campus. 



DM: Everything lhat ( have done previously 
given me certain uselul skills, but this position i 
unlike anything I have ever done before.This is 
new experience." 

HG: What qualilies i 

individuals who have 

BM: My dedication and motivation. 

open-minded; I am a man of my word. Also. 1 think 

that my skills, mi&gt;ed with my personality give me 

a unique style and outlook tor this position. 

HG: What is Ihe most enjoyable or eliciting thing 
about your job? 

BM: 1 would have to say lhat the most enjoyable is 
seeing the event tum out and the expression on 
people'^ faces as the participate. When we had Ihe 
Extreme Air event on campus, sludents kepi com- 
ing and that was great When people participate, it 
lets me know 1 am doing my job, 

HG: What is your main focus? 

BM: To gel the IPFW family involved and excited 

about our campus. To catch Ihe (ever and partici- 



HG: How can students get involved? 
BM: All they have to do is come by the IPSGA 
office and pick up an application, fill out a petition 
and have a 2.0 GPA or higher. 1 currently have 
ight board members and would 



HG: Whal a 

BM: Satisfaction! It has been difficult k 
dent involvement, but I have seen a dn 
and I am liking whal i sec. 

Miller said lhat Loh Beth Royse, Director of 
Student Life and IPSGA adviser, is a magnificent 
individual and that it is because of her constant 
enthusiasm and excitement lhat college life here at 
IPFW is a wonderful experience. Miller also said 
that without ihe board, Sludent Life. IPSGA, Justin 



Busch and Ihe sludents here at IPFW, none of the 
events would be possible. And so he says thank 
you. He also wants to encourage everyone lo come 
out to the events and make them successful 
because IPFW is lor you, ihe students. 

Miller's office is located in Walb 225D. He can 
also be reached bv phone ,ii JSl-oSTOorbyemailat 
SABeholmes.ipfw.edu. 



increase that r 




ROCkStar' Movie Review: 



mber with interested, dedicated Brian Miller, SAB president, says involvement is key to students' success. In ihe 
pholo above. Miller is shown with Student Body President Justin Busch and Jess 
Famsworth, host of IPSGA update. 

In this '80s flick, Mark Wahlberg plays an aspiring musician who is 
given the chance of a lifetime to play in a heavy metal band. 



By |efl fteecham, Staff Writer 

In this '80s flick, Mark Wahlberg plays an 
aspiring musician who is given the chance of a life- 
lime to play in a heavy mclal band. 

Synopsis 

Wahlberg plays Chris Cole, a member of a Sleel 
Dragon tribute band, is toiling away in his normal 
every day life until he receives a call from the 
aforementioned band and us given Ihe chance lo be 
Ihe lead singer. He jumps at the chance and soon is 
living the typical heavy metal rocker's life, sur- 
rounded bv all the women, drugs and alcohol lhat 
he could ever want. 



Cole's girlfriend Emily (Jennifer Aniston) 
slicks around as long as she can, bul soon makes 
her exit lo "live a real life " Soon alter Emily leaves, 
Chris is told that he has no say in the band's 
day-to-day opera I ions and cannol even make sug- 
gestions or write any ol Ihe songs thai he's going lo 
sing. This, of course, leads to tension between him 
ana the olher band members and soon he is faced 
with the decision ni living a good' life as a rock 
star or being able to do what he wants and be taken 






job with the role hi 



Stuff 

the acting goes, Wahlberg does a good 
■ ——il, but how much of a 



strelch is it for Marky Mark lo pi 

Aniston on the olher hand, is nothing Special 
in this movie and while Ihis is partly due to Ihe 
script, she seemed a bit unbelievable at times. 

Director Stephen Herek does rather well with 
the actors, though sometimes you wonder why 
you didn't jusl stay home and watch MTV and 
save S7. Altogether he seems lo use Ihe actors lo 
Ihe best of their abilities and still manages lo cap- 
lure the rock craze of the '80s pretty well. 

All things considered, with the possible 
exception of Wahlberg and the road manager 
(Spall), the acting is nothing special and Ihe direct- 
ing could have been better, loo. 



Although there are points during which this 
movie seems to slow down to a nearly pedestrian 
pace, il does manage lo capture the feelings of 
what your everyday Joe might be feeling in this sit- 
uation and therefore is a prelly decent show. 



"If you haven't 

yet decided on 
a major, take a 

SPEA course. 
It will open 

your eyes to a 

new perspective 

on the 

importance of 
public service. " 



7 IPFW % 



i after 



college, 1 had yet to decide exactly whit 
1 wanted to do following my under- 
graduate studies. 1 needed a course of 
study that would provide extensive 
preparation for three prospects: ( I) both 
private and public sector employment-, 
(2) graduate level business study; and (3) 
law school. SPEA fully met these goals, 

"Courses in SPEA involve more than 
simply encountering and remembering 
information, I have become engrossed in 
the unique opportunity I have been given 
to realize the importance of public 
secior affairs. 1 have gained a new respect 
for thaseinttilvediilpublicafriirs- these 
people truly have a desire to help others. 

There is little question (hat 
nil problems 
mely challenging 



IDOKFOR 

THIS COURSE: 
SPEA WTO 

InlrorJuciitir 
ID 

Public Affairs 

Yoifiilearo about 
i; urn; nt public a if a Irs 
through id in-deglft 
look ■! poll cv-m a king 
aiallfevclsol 
government and 
eumlnahow 
I) iiUllt policy relates 

to economm 




#IPFW 



Campus 
x Calendar 



for Sept. 27-Oct 


10, 2001 


September 


t 


Co-op Corner, WU 1 16, noon- 


27 Blood Health Profile and More (12- 




1:30 p.m.; for information, call 6918. 


hour fast required), KT 108, 7-10 a.m. 






for information, call 6647 or e-mail 


4 


Strategic Plan public session, NF 101, 


""*""• 




7-8:30 p.m.; for information, call 6B0S. 
Menopause Pathways: 


18 Hispanic Awareness Month Video 




"Verlebralplasty: Repairrng Damaged 


Series: CenfraMmericaOoie-Up. 




Backbones' and 'Osteoporosis: 


WU 1 14. noon; for Information, call 




Preventing and Evaluating Your Risks," 


6608. 




WU 222, 7-9 p.m.; for information, call 


Accounting and Finance seminar: 




219-373-8091. 


"Dealing with a Difficult Stock Market" 






and Tax-Advantaged College Savings 


5 


Hispanic Awareness Month Video 


Plan,' NF 137. 1 1 a.m.-noon, free; 




Series: Women of Hope: Latinas Abriendc 


reservations to sharmam@ipfw.edu. 




Camino, WU 114, noon.; for information 


Theatre presents. The Rivals, WT, 




call 6608. 


8 p.m., also Sept. 29, Oct. 4, 5, and 6. 






For information, call the box office. 


Academic Counseling and Career Services 




Tes 


ng Services; for information, call 6600 




6 


Law School Admission Test (LSAT), 


29 American Lung Association Walk, GC. 




WU126.B:30a.m. 


9:30 a.m.; for information, call 6647 or 


10 


College-level Examination Program 


e-mail tillapau. 




|CLEP).KT232B, 8:30 a.m. ■ 


United Sexualitles' trip to James Dean 




Career assessment group 


Festival. Fairmount, noon departure; for 




interpretation. KT G41, 5:30 p.m. 


information, call 6609. 






Presentation on theTahlrih Justice 


6 


United Sexualities' dinner dance. 


Center (provides legal services to 




Grand Wayne Center, 6 p.m.; for 


immigrant and refugee women}. 




informaton, call 41 79. 


Botanical Conservatory. 1 p.m.. free. 






for information, 219-4B6-6002. 


9 


Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) 
classes, 4:30-6:30 p.m.; also Oct. 11, 


30 Honors Convocation, GC, 2 p.m.* for 




16, 18, 23, and 25, Free for female IPFW 


Information, call 6460. 




employees, students, and their families; 
S25, general public. To register, call 



October 

weigh To Go . . .Treat Yourself Well* st 
MJ G21, noon-1 :50 pan. free; for 
nformatlon, call 6647 or e-mail tillapau. 
1 Transitions of Change . . . Where Ar 

8 "Walking— Time for Me." 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Page 6 The Communicate- 



Sports 



Relaxation Women's volleyball crushes Chicago State 



at its peak 



By Jon Tcders, Sports Edilor 

I recently had (he opportunity to m; 
a fool of myself by taking a few stic 
many, many, many, little white balls a 




Golf is by far 
t frustrat- 
ing sport in the 
world. By the sec- 



keep my boll company. 

Then my friend opened my eyes to 
wliai golf is really about and lhal is the lad 
lh.it milt"-', wu're i-n ttievinon. you're hor- 
rible just like me. 1 thought about that and 
disagreed, but 1 did come up wilh the (act 
that 1 keep coming back because I get to 
hang out with my friends and drink beer. 

It is the most primal instinct to spend 
time with your friends and drink. Our 
father-; did it. their lathers did it and their 
fathers' fathers did It. 

So I began to drink along with playing 
golf and unbelievably, I got belter 1 began 
thinking ninr.- ,ihi-ui ilv tempera I lire of mv 
beer than my backs wing and started to have 
a good lime'. I Forgol about the bngies, the 
double bogies, the triple bogies, the ... well, 
anything bad possible and before I knew it, 
I had made par on consecutive holes Sure I 
shot a 52 on a par 31, but t had a great lime 
It was "what it's all about." Now 1 don't 
know what "it" is, but I know that not wor- 
rying about your golt game is all about "it." 

Now I'm not saying take a 12-packand 
drink alter every shot, but I am saying that 
people need to find something to relax them 
and lower scores. If studying for a test 
relaxes you. take your textbook to the 
course If sleeping relaxes you, make sure 
you pack a pillow and blanket. Just follow 
this simple rule and watch your scores 
lower. II worked for me, why couldn't it 
work for you? 



By Jon Teders, Sports Editor 

IPFW literally dominated the i hi 

Cougars las I Tuesday night, caking three Straight 
games. The final score was a 3-0 Dons victory as- 
they took (he first game 30-12, the second game 
30-15and the thud and ■■ 

In the first game the Dons controlled things 
from (he beginning, taking an early 7-3 lead 
IPFW's front line crushed the cougars as *4 
■ ■. Meinhatt and 
fd Deanna Brown put up kill after kill. Brown 
Jed (lie team in the first game- wilh I 
Chicago State called a timeout after thev tell 
. ., 

The Cougars can'- I 
four straight points to m 
JPFW countered with five 
own to push the lead up i 

S sugars got in the first game wa 
ons exploded, taking a 19-9 lead. The Cougars 
took another timeout, but this time it was not 
Effective, as Deanna Brown kept ripping kills 
through the paper-thin Cougar defer *" 
bores finally (meshed the game 30-12. 
i The second game looked almost like 
a carbon copy of the first game with 
by the Dons. In facl, most of the points 
Chicago Slate were by baby dints. The 
Was the Miller show, as she conlribi 




Your guiding light through the 2001 NFL season 



n Ti derv Sports Editor 



As for the playoffs, I see a wide 
open compelition. In the AFC, I think 
the playoff teams will be the Colls, 
Jaguars and Chiefs winning the divi- 
sions. As for the wildcard, I like the 
Dolphins, Broncos and the Bengals. 
That's right, Ihe Bengals. 

The AFC championship game 
will have the Chiefs and the Colts, 
with the Chiefs winning 31-27. 

In the NFC, the division winners 
will be the Eagles, Bucs and Saints. 
The wildcard learns will be Ihe Rams. 
■J9ers and Packers. 

The NFC championship game 
will have the Rams and the Bucs. with 
the Rams coming out on lop 17-14. 

That leaves us with the Super 
Bowl. I'm assuming you're still read- 
ing this because my picks are intrigu- 
ing or because you think I'm an idiot. 
More than likely, you're right on both 
accounls. So, who will win the Super 
Bowl? The Chiefs! That's right Trent 



Green will throw (or 350 yards, as he 
and Head Coach Dick Vermeil will 
lake home the hardware wilh a final 
score of 63-7. 1 don't really believe that 
will be the score, but the Super Bowl is 
almost always a blowout, so I'm going 
with the odds 

The MVPs will be as follows: In 
the AFC, il will be Payton Manning. 
Everyone keeps saying that he is the 
best QB in the league, yel they refuse 
to give him the recognition for it. This 
year lie will get it. 

In the NFC, believe it or not. 1 like 
Warrick Dunn. This year he will be Ihe 
leatured back in the Bucs' offense. 
With a quarterback who can keep 
defenses honest, he should have a 



Rookies of the year will be easy lo 
pick. In the AFC, it will be Ladanian 
Thomlinson. He has a strong QB in 
Doug Fluiic with him. and the 
Chargers' coaching staff is willing lo 
give him 30 carries a game, so 100 
yards a game should not be a problem. 

In Ihe NFC,' it will be Michael 
Vick. Don't fool yourself into thinking 



Hasslebcck has n&lt; 
himself in the NFL 

2) Baltimore: It's a shame that 
they won't even make Ihe play- 
offs. They have no running 
game and you can't win games 
without a running game. Ask 
Ihe Cleveland Browns. 

3) The Tennessee Titans; I don'l 
care whal anyone says, they 
don't have a quarterback. 

Well I have led you to the 

firomised land. You know exacl- 
y how the season will end up. 
You don'l even have to watch 
the games. 




Photo courtesy of www.buccanneers.c- 
Bucs' safety Jon Lynch. 




Sports 

September 26, 2001 k^j^v^ -&gt; u 

A few moments with 

Sports Information Director Mike Jewell 



J.T.: How are Ihe (cams adjusting lo being 

Division I? 

M.J.: So far they have adjusted 



them. Indiana Slate, which they won in 
five games down af Indiana Slate, and 
Valparaiso, just this past weekend which 
Ihey won in five games up in Valpo. 



, [ think 



J.T.: I saw that on the website. 

M.J.: Both of those were very light gai 
fo ilhcy're fmdmg ,mt lha. the speed « a ^ m|() ,,„, ^ % 

lot (aster at the Ehvis.on 1 level and that lmow * , wh J t IS go *g lo n '. Tne I 

fey are compete at a higher level. Dnc , 5 vv|ns s bul ^ |m ^ | iVp „,,,,. 
* llherwise ,],.., re pT« tasbfag *«"■ ft , 5 fcc( ^ h othen 

i.nrly evenly m.ildti.'d and very physical 
in both men's and women's soccer. If you 
look at the women's volleyball, who are 
actually 3-5 right now, alter beating 
Miami of Ohio, Chicago State and Valpo 
They're looking real strong and they are 
hoping in the next couple of days, espe- 
cially against 1UPUI tomorrow nighl, Inal 
Ihey will come out with anolher win and ,v 
*.! „», „fa, ,h„ ,0 K total., tarn J™« J^ 1 
whatruw in ir r- stroma as Uiew were . . . _ i.°. 



what Isoe, they' 
last year. Compctin 
doing very, very wi 



J.T.: That really says something about that 
team. I know up in Valpo Ihey won the 
first game, then dropped the nexl two. To 
be able lo come back from lhal on the 
road really says something about this 
team's character. 

M.J.: Yeah, that's telling you about their 

character, that's Idling you something 

they're 



I. they": 



doing a tremendous |ob. 
J.T 



J.T.: Do you feel that being in Division 
has raised the level of our learns' play? 
M.I.: Yr.ih 1 Ihink it has. Overall, they'i 
playing a lot more aggressively in som 
areas. For volleyball, I think we were : 
Division I level lasl year and the last col 
pie of years. We have always had a solid 
women's volleyball ' 



problem. Men': 
women's soccer, I think right now, they're 
just really young, playing against some 
vcleran teams and Ihcy're jusl going lo 
have lo rum up the notch here some time 



Why is it important for students to 
come out and support the teams? 
M.J.: I think it gives a sense of belonging 
and that is what they need lo realize. It's 
just not [PFW Athletics; it's also the stu- 
dents on campus. 1 mean, most schools 
you would not find a mascot unless Ihey 
had athletics And I think a lot of students 



|.Ts So out of all the teams, you feel the 

women's volleyball team is the most com- 

petilive. 

M.J.: I'd say they had two games thai 

were probably really, really lough on 

Upcoming Events/ Week in Review 



They'll enjoy coming lo the games. 
They'll enjov seeing their friends play. 1 
know, -nme men's volleyball time, a lot 
more will come out. that's jusl what has 
happened. If Ihey slarl coming to some of 
the olher games, they're going to see 
some good talent out there, especially in 
women's volleyball, and some of the 

level is still very high, so Ihey are going lo 
see a lol at good games. 



J.T.: What will Ihe basketball game 
against Morehead Slate at the Coliseum 
do for the local image of IPFW? 
M.J.; 1 Ihink it's going lo bring a good 
image. It's one that's going to take some 
time for Ihe people in Fort Wayne to get 
used to. It's like, 'Hey, were playing al a 
Division I level,' but I think once they see 
what type of players we have and what 
type of games are going to be in town, 
they're really going to enjoy it. We're not 
going to give a disappointing show. 
Basically, you've got bigger players, big- 
ger alhlcles who are stronger, which will 
make lor a more physical game. It will be 
more of an up and down pace. There will 
be a lot oF snooting, something like you 
would see if you were going lo watch/say 
a Ball State game. It's gonna be good bas- 
ketball. 



J.T.: How many would you like? 

M.J.: Actually. I'd like to s«- us fill the 

entire arena. That would be nice. 

J.T.: Final queslion: How important is il 
For volleyballs lo slay clear of laptop com- 
puters? 

M.J.: In my line ol work, it is very impor- 
tant lor volleyballs (o stay away from 
Ihem. The problem is you could be at any 
sporting event and you're going lo have 
accidents occur. I've seen things broken at 
basketball games, I've seen it done at auto 
racing. It's jusl one of those things you 
dreadseoing, especially from a keeping o( 
statistics point of view, but as long as you 
h.ive a back-up. you're okay. 



y Jon Tedcrs, Sporls Editor 



Wednesday 9/26 

Men's soccer vs. Depaul at 7 



Saturday 9/29 
Women's volleyball vs. 
Northern Kentucky (tin 

Tuesday 10/2 

Women's Vollevb.ill vs 
7p.m. 



Fan Stand: On Campus 

This week's question: Which sporting event are 
you most likely to attend? 



'Probably 




a 




men's vol- 




Yi 




eyball 




&lt;-■ ■ 


1 


and base- 








ball." 


r v 


. .-. 


Haley Honlz 






* . 



Photo by Jon Tetters, Sports Editor 
Dons supporter Haley Hontz. 




Tony 
Wiilson 
Is this 
spelled 
right-K 



Photo by Jon Teders, Sports Editor 
Baseball player Tony Wiilson. 



Sunday 11/4 

Men's basketball vs» 

College, 3 p.m. 

Friday 11/9 
Women's basketball w 

7p.m. 

Week in review: 
Tuesday 9/18 
Men's soccer I IUPUI 
IUPU1 1 0-1 
IPFW 00-0 
Women's volleyball d. 
Stale 3-0 



Wednesday 9/19 
Women's soccer I. Michigan 
Stale 7-0 

Michigan State 5 1-7 
IPFW 0-0 



Women's soci 
Drury 1 2-3 
. IPFW 2-2 




^Sjp 



il 

1984 Ford Maroon 

Crown Victoria 

S8U0 or best offer. 

Please call: 

219-347-4648 



SPRING BREAK PARTY! 

Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food, and Parties with the 
Baal DJ'a and celebrities In Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan, 
and the Bahamas. Go to StudentClty.com, call 1-600-293- 




SpPiftg $ 10 Initiol Deposit 

—y _ « ; Offer tnds 10/19/2001 

OPGOK. Prices i nc | uc (e: 

■i Molorcooch from your 
Puerto VoJIorta from $939 £ , Mege , the Qirpor , 
(bused on Triple Occupancy) (Groups of 6 or more] 
March 3-10 or 10-17 ; J Non . stop service out f 

Cancun from $999 : Chicago 
(based on Quad Occupancy) V 7 nights Ot great hotel 
March Z-9 or 9-16 '.-! Airport/Hotel transfers 

l-BOQ-643-4604 www cdgertons-travel.com 





IPFWs #1 Dance Party Club! ... DUH! 



THE BEST LIVE ROCK THURSD; 



Tfiursuay. Serjtembef ?7 

NORTHERN KIND 

Friday. September 21 

SHAFFER STREET 

Saturday Sep timber 28 

COMMON GROUND 




niuTtuay. October 4 

JURY 

FriiUy. Octoter 6 

SPLURGE 

SsturfJay October B 

SNOW SHOE GRARS 



LADIES NITE THURSDAY' COVER JUST $1 



M*0*M*S (Midwest Original Music Showcase) 



Tmsday. Qctolnr Z 

SUNNY TAYLOR • JBHNATHAN WIMPE • MATT STURM 

On the Landing • 135 W. Columbia St., Fort Wayne • 422-5055 » www.columbiastreetwest.coni 




JN ews 



Sepiember 26, 2001 



Julia Roberts 
donates $1 
million to 
disaster relief 



WASHINGTON-(COLLECIATE PRESSWIRE) 

Supporting the work o! the American Red Cross 
during limes ol disaster, Julia Roberts made a SI 
million donation for disaster relief in response to 
attacks on America. 
an Red Cross provides food, shelter, 
emotional support, blood and 
a other life-saving assistance (to 
I those in need. Red Cross pro- 
ns and services, most impor- 
ly crisis or grieving counsel' 
I ing. are available to alfthe fami- 
1 Ik's j Heeled by disasters for as 
; as they need it. 
"The Red Cross is honored 
| by the generous contribution." 
I said Dr. Uemadine Hcalv, presi- 
1 dent and CEO of the American 
| Red Cross. 

"Julia Roberts is an 
and is helping the American 
Red Cross' relief efforts through her heartfelt work 
to the public on coping strategics to help people 
grieve in a time of crisis." 



Currently operating on a budget of S2.7 billion, 
the Red Cross annually mobilizes relief to the vic- 
tims of more than o" (NM dis.isicrs nationwide and 
has been the primary supplier ol lifesaving blood 
and blood products in the United Stales lor more 
than 50 years. 

In 2000, the Red Cross also trained almost 12 
million people in vital lifesaving skills, provided 
direct healm services lo nearly 2.6 million people 
and delivered more than 21 million locally relevant 
community services. 

The organization a I mi assisted international dis- 
asler and conflict victims in close to 40 locations 
around the globe and its emergency communica- 
tion centers processed 12 million calls in support 
of United States military lamilie-s. 



The Rivals' to debut on campus 




The 1PFW department of theatre will present 
The Rivals" by Richard Brinsley Sheridan on 
Sept. 28, 29 and Oct. 4. 5, 6 at 8 p.m. 

Craig Humphrey will direct the play, which 
will be produced at the Williams Theatre. 

The play features Jonathan Matthew Gilbert, 
the director of this past summer's controversial 
play, "Corpus Chnsti." in the role of David. 

Pat Fruchey plays the role of Mr. Twiggs and 
Christine M Feay plays Lucy. 

The modem interpretation of the 18th century 

Elay moves the action from 18th century Bath, 
ngland. to 1920s Warm Springs, Ga. 
Consequently, the play carries the subtitle, 
"How we traveled across two centuries from Bath 
to Warm Springs." 

"Richard Brinsley Sheridan's The Rivals,' writ- 
ten in 1775, is an example of Eighteenth Century 
Comedy of Manners," Humphrey wrote in his 



director's noles lo me production. 

"It was written to poke fun at the i 
and follies of the upper classes of Georgian 
England, to expose the frivolity, affectation, snob- 
bery and sentimental ism common in British high 
society of die lime. 

"Ironically, those whom the play mocked were 
those who made up its first audiences and they 

"It would have been performed in, what would 
appear to us, a highly declamatory, artificial man- 
ner, in front of two-dimensional, painted back- 
grounds and costumed with the powdered wigs, 
corsets, breeches and hose we associate with our 
colonial forefathers. 

"The plays of this period provide wonderful 
opportunities and challenges for actors, partial- 
student actors, in developing period style, 
-realistic approach lo movement and 



larlysl 
"Wilhi 



Fraternity suspended 
after pledge's death 



BLOOMINGTON, Ind - (IU News) Richard 
McKoig, vice chancellor for Student Affairs and 
dean oTstudcnis at IU Bloominglon, on Sept. 19, 
announced that he has summarily suspended the 
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. 

This action results from reports received by the 
Dean of Students Office of alleged violations of 
university alcohol policies by the organization at 
its chapter house, located at 1012 E. Third Street 

Preliminary information suggests Uiat alco- 
holic beverages were served to sludents below 
the legal drinking age following a chapter event 
and that no state licenses or campus approvals 
were either requested or obtained before the 

Following the event, a guest who had attended 
the function required medical attention as a result 
of his drinking. 

Summary suspension is the most severe action 
that can be taken without formal review by the 



Such action prohibits Pi Kappa Alpha from 
participating in or hosting any social or philan- 
thropic functions or on-campus intramural pro- 
grams and other campus events such as 
Homecoming, Dance Marathon, IU Sing or Little 



"ln&lt; 



■sity policy 



odoa 



that is in in out power lo hold 
organizations and individu 
accountable for their behav-t 
ior." McKaigsaid, 

The fraternity was recolonized by the naliona 
headquarters and an alumni board in Jan, 200 
following an alcohol-related incident ii 
December 1998 which resulted in the suspensioi 
of the organization from campus by the universi 



nm 



PLEASE RECYCLE 
THIS NEWSPAPER. 

Blue bins are located in every building. 



Enduring Relationships 




Your Raymond James Financial Advisor 

Few things withstand the test of time like a solid relationship. 
At Raymond James, we take great pride in the fact that the 
recommendations of our clients are our primary source of new business. 
It attests to our success in sustaining long-term relationships, ones that not 
only endure, but also improve with age. 

RAYMOND JAMES - 

Sl associates, ikic. 

Member Nn York Slock Eichnngw/SIPC 

Commillrd lo your financial future. 



and have been assured ol their full cooperation 
dealing with the chapter. 

The summary suspension will remain, pending 
the outcome ol formal disciplinary action. 

Richards, from p. 1 

The event is co-sponsored by IPFW'sSchool of 
Arts and Sciences, Center for Women and 
Returning Adults, Communication, English and 
Linguistics, History, IPSGA, Labor Studies, 
Modern Foreign Languages, Multicultural 
Services, Philosophy, Political Science and 
Psychology. 



gesture, its focus on modes and manners and its 
sophistication of language. The Rivals' seemed 
the perfect piece to allow our students the oppor- 
tunity to transfer what they are learning in the 
classroom lo the si age." 

Info 



Faculty, staff, alumni or Art Advocates' 
admission price is $9. 

All other students with ID pay S7, $8 
groups of 10 or more. 

For information call the department of 
theatre at 481-6551 



Forum,, from p. 1 

niqucs the CIA and the NSA have used in the 

Sandstrom called Afghanistan a rough place. 
The Middle Eastern country has been ruled by 
the Taliban regime for the past five years. Known 
for Iheir harsh treatment of women and extrem- 
ist ideas, the Taliban have helped make the coun- 
try one of the poorest and most antiquated in Ihe 
world. 

The professors also attempted to explain some 
of the reasons behind the attacks. 

Fisher blamed the United Slates' isolationist 
altitudes as one contributing factor. "We need to 
be a less gated community," he said. 

Sandstrom said he believed Ihe Uniled Slates' 
"tilt towards Israel" by allying itself with that 
country is another factor contributing to the 
attack. "Fundamentalists are not rewarded by 
capitalism," he added. 

He also agreed with Fisher's sentiment of 
America's isolationist stance. "Maybe people 
hate us because we arc not participating." 

"There's no easy answer to foreign policy," 
Lulz said, explaining that no matter how the 
Uniled Stales treats other nations, some will 
incvilably be angered by certain acts or policies. 

Lacan, from p. 1 

Galoppe has been researching the work of 
Lacan for many years. He has written "Gtfnero y 
confusion encl leatro dc tirso de Molina (Gender 
and Confusion in Ihe Theater of Tirso de 
Molina)," a book aboul Golden Age Spanish 
drama in the light of Lacan's theory. 

Galoppe's lecture also approached some post- 
modern thoughts on cross-dressing. 

The transveslite (according to Margaret 
Garber, among others) is "the agency that chal- 
lenges binary tensions of masculinity and femi- 
ninily by taking a third position," he explained. 




