Downside of Employment Page 



Thi 



Wednesday, January 20, 2610 



Volume 40, Issu^j 



ommunicator 



ipfwcommunicator.org 



^Qu^tef ^ 'W^(sm&lt;^ 



New Child Care Partnership 
Sparks Mixed Emotions 



The merge beiween The Learning Cenier ITLC; uniU 
IPFW's Child Care Center ([PFWCCO has been a 
of discussion, debate and mixed emoiions for the pai 
few months. Even now, after the decision has been enforced arj 
the move is complete, there are still some who continue to b 
frustrated by the partnershnj 



8y Melissa R. Hirsch 

lushnu0 1 enudtnts. Ipfw^u 




January 20, 2010 



NEWS 



p. 2 




Students Need a Strong Financial Watchdd§ 



By Andrew MerkJ 

jmcrkieunuil.iu.edu 



High-cost, unregulated private student loans arc 
just one example of why we need a strong Consumer 
Financial Protection Agency (CFPA). Indiana's 
senator, Evan Bayh, sits on the Senate Banking 
Committee and is a key vote to create a robust new 
watchdog that would keep an eye on the loan market 
for students, and set strong rules for fairer private 
, student loan marketing and terms. 

As someone who will graduate with about $70,000 
in private loan debt from lU Bloomington, I urge the 
senator to create the CFPA. 

We've been told since we were young that a college 
degree is the key to our future. Now that I've been in 
college for a few years, I also understand how society 
benefits from our education. We are challenged to 
foim a vision for impacting the world, and we get the 
training and tools necessary to do it. 1 entered college 
intent on getting a business degree, to make the big 
bucks, but now I've set my sights on a career in public 
service when I graduate. My education at lU helped 
mold my political and social views in important ways 
and helped reform my priorities. I am deeply grateful 
fori!. 

But at some point the benefits of a college degree 
are undercut by the deep financial risk students take 
on to get it. The Indiana Public Interest Research 
Group, a consumer advocacy organization al lU 
Bloomington, just released a report finding tliat 62 
percent of Indiana's college graduates carry student 
loan debt, which averages 523,264 per student. 
Most is in the form of safer, federal loans. But a 



significant amount is in private student loans, which 
are unregulated and much riskier, Indiana students 
graduated with an average of S3, 556 in private 
student loans in 2Q08. 

This is where the picture becomes even bleaker. 
Interest rates on private student loans can be as high 
as 18%, and fees can be pegged at 10 percent of the 
loan principal. And marketing is aggressive. Consider 
that 2 out of 3 borrowers with private student loans 
forgo taking out the maximum in federal loans for 
which they qualify'! The combination of shrinking 
state investment in higher education, stagnant 
federal grants and less parental assistance has left 
us students picking up more of our educational tab. 

"...lU Bloomington just released a report 

finding that 62 percent of Indiana's college 

graduates carry student loan debt, which 

averages $23,264 per student" 



Against this backdrop, we are prime targets forprivate 
student lenders, standing by with the easy financing 
we need to attain our dreams. 

The 33,000 students in Indiana who attend for- 
profit colleges are really taken for a ride. Graduates 
from for-profit colleges carry an average of $32,650 in 
debt. Many of these colleges make their own private 
loans to tlie students, promising students a high 
paying job at graduation to handle the repayment. In 
reality, those loans are a rip-off. Corinthian Colleges 
actuallyplansforoverSO percent ofils private student 
loan borrowers to plunge into default. 

Being the third child to enter college, I am 



fortunate to have a father who is seasoned in the 
loan process. However, even with a financially savvy 
father, 1 haven't gone through the past three years 
without some bumps in the road. My private loans 
were originally taken out through Sallie Mae. This 
year, my father and I discovered that the terms had 
changed significantly since my freshman year. As a 
result, we stopped borrowing Irom Sallie Mae and 
took out this year's loan through my hometoivn bank. 
We considered a federal PLUS loan for my parents 
to help pay the costs, but the requirement to make 
payments while in college made it an unfeasible 
option. 

Taking out these private loans was initially an 
easy decision I made together with my dad when i 
planned on a business degree. But now I can't help 
but feel a little trapped when I consider the reality of 
a lower paying social service career combined with 
high private loan repayment. 

The bottom line is that the level of debt I have 
taken on for my degree is my choice, regardless of 
the consequences. But at the very least, students 
and families should be assured that the private loan 
products that are out there in the marketplace are fair 
and transparent. And students should be protected 
from the predatory lending practices of their own 
institutions. 

1 think that a strong Consumer Financial 
Protection Agency would not only bring some badly 
needed security to the uncertain world of private 
student lending. Speaking first hand, it will help keep 
student dreams ofa better world within reach. 

Andrew Merki is a junior at Indiana University 
Bloomington. and the chair of the Indiana Public 
Interest Research Group. 



Now you can find out 

what's happening 

at IPFW. 

All In one place. 

• Browse official university events, all in one location 

• Subscribe to calendars and receive automatic updates 

• Publish information about your official university events 

• Find out what's happening at IPFW 

Visit events.ipfw.eclu, or select the events tab in mylPFW. 




For more information, 
e-mail events@ipfw.e{Ju, 

or call 260-481-6808. 



IPFW 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY 

PURDUE UNIVERSFTY 

FORT WAYNE 



AD COURTESY OF THE OFFICE OF THE CHANCELLOR 



Adjusting to Change 



continued from front 



By Melissa R.Hirsch 

b^hiiirtlieiliidi;n)5.ipfw.eilu 



Former teacher at the IPFW CCC 
and current student at IPFV/, Katie 
Clark, says although she was skeptical 
in the beginning, she is pleased with 
how the partnership is forming. In any 
new business transition, adjustments 
must be made. Clark mentioned that 
the facility is larger and newer than 
their previous location; a nice change 
over the previously crowded rooms 
that IPFW CCC had before. TLC is a 
better equipped facility that allows 
for so many extra things that the 
previous Child Care Center did not; 
one example: meals. TLC has a kitchen 
that allows children to be served food 
instead of requiring parents to pack 
lunches daily. For parents, this is a huge 
relief and saves a lot of time. For staff, 
this is a huge adjustment, one that will 
come easily once the staff develops a 
routine. A "bump in the road" as one 
staff member told me. Overall the staff, 
Katie Clark included, seems pleased to 
be there; yet, while they enjoy their new 
director, they were quick to say how 
much tliey missed Lynda Place, their 
former director (that was left without 
a position at TLC), and the kids from 
the previous semester that did not join 
in the iransition. The staff is hopeful 
that after this semester enrollment 
will steadily increase and that TLC will 
continue to grow. 

According to TLC's Assistant 
Director, Risha Swoverland-McLellan, 
who was the Assistant Director for the 
IPFW CCC as well, states, "We have 
a little over 70 children enrolled at 
the center. The majority of them are 
children of IPFW students, faculty and 



staff. We have 10 of the students who 
worked at the IPFW CCC of the 1 7 staff 
we had there. ' 

Swoverland-McLellan also says that 
TLC's current, greatest demand is for 
infant and toddler care; an issue that 
held many restrictions for the previous 
IPFW CCC. 

Former parents, however, do not 
feel the same and continue to be 
unhappy about the decision. Several 
parents spent countless hours during 
December trying to overturn the IPFW 
Administration's decision to merge 
with TLC so quickly. TVvo mothers 
(who are also IPFW students) formed 
a group for "On-Campus Childcare" 
and met on several occasions with 
die chancellor and vice-chancellors 
to discuss topics of concern. Their 
last meeting involved a proposal that 
requested the opening date of TLC be 
held off until the end of the academic 
year. After being turned down, parents 
were certain they were fighting a losing 
battle. The next best step: remove 
their children from the IPFW CCC 
and vvitfihold them from attending 
TLC. Some of the local preschools 
and childcare centers have noticed an 
increase in enrollment because they 
have decided to offer IPFW students, 
staff and faculty discounted fees after 
learning of the merge loan off campus 
location. 

Only time ivill tell as to the success 
of TLC; the facility, like any other new 
business, is still fine-tuning its daily 
routines during this first week of 
classes. While one never wishes for any 
portion or chapter of IPFW to fail, one 
can certainly wish for TLC's success 
and the eventual transition back to an 
on campus location. 



January 20, 2010 



NEWS 



JZ 



o 
_c 
&lt;u 

OQ 

El 

njl 



My two feci can never musler past north end 
oftheRhinehart Music Center. Looking out 
angled windows whose forms would be crafty 
in Fort Wayne's historical district. VViiiams 
Theatre yards away, but I can't open threshold, 
leave music center, go back to old house where 
I 'm intimate with mirrors, floors and dressing- 
rooms; it has taken so much and given so less 
since Larry stood in entrance of that auditorium, 
talking his lilt about his new recruits, on seni- 
happy, lost in what to do with his young jittery 
actor - Should I scrap it, or reblock the 1st act? 

"That house for fools, lovers, and fakes." 1 walk 
by the office of Cynthia Greider. back south, on 
the second floor, and a clarinet tries to play me 
a Saturday like it's supposed to be heard-halls 
reconstitute reverberation from a jazz I left in 
my office. How radio's piano gets magnificent 
with only eighty-eight people, slops me in front 
ofaWhite Oak andWhiie Ash sitting in front 
of cold gazebo, like many years before, when 
my theatre class sat struggling about intentions 
of the main man ina Albeeplay. How play 
plays its tink link link tink on tumbler in my gut. 

"How did I leave doors of music center without 
knowing all first limes stay stuck all first times?" 
The trees have cried their leaves to the ground. 
The last time I saw his face, he was not good- 
his rehearsal, worse. He would want me to forget. 
The show. Small things need li\ed, like passion. 
I'll start slow, see The Yellow Boat, in our box 
theatre, where life started. My student, Adam, 
is tall in it, playing the best friend, somewhere 
over the rainbow, in a little place tucked inside 
themind of a boy There's always endings, but 
the beginnings are the hardest thing to ride on. 
I'll try allusion again, next time I am grading 
papers. I'll try Williams' lobby, like first time 
in eyes, and I'll sit beneath placard-in moan. 



By Kristan Mensch 



Little Friends at the Mocha Lounge 

Set, played a few songs - one of which was 
called "Sbity-Eight," and had been played at 
a memorial service for McLaughlin. While 
everyone reminisced, and some fought back 
tears, the love that was shared for McLaughlin 
was evident. 

"She was so much more than just an 
employee," said Till, "she was a wonderfiil 
person to everyone that she met." 



The Mocha Lounge cut the ribbon on their 
"Little Friends" room Ian, 16, which was built 
in honor of Amanda Mclaughlin, an IPFW 
student who fell victim to a hit-and-run in 
Canterbury Green apartments Sept. 12, 2009. 

McLaughlin had worked at the Mocha 
Lounge for two years, said oivner Brian Till, 
adding that she was always a pleasure to have 
around and loved to entertain children when 
they came in with their parents. 

The room, which is meant to serve as a 
comfortable and chic place for parents to 
enjoy their coffee while their children can 
play iviih various toys, was built completely 
off of donations, said Till. On top of that, it 
is also furnished with some of McLaughlin's 
possessions, including two couches, a table 
and chairs. 

According to a note about McLaughlin 
whichwas framed insideofthe"Little Friends" 
room, "Every child thai walks through this 
door and plays with these toys is helping to 
honor Amanda's passion for fun and joy." 

When the ribbon was cut and everyone 
was allowed to finally see the tribute to 
McLaughlin, the room was filled ivith 
comments about how much her personality 
showed through the decorations. 

With glamorous light fixtures, pictures 
of high heels and zebra-print chairs, many 
people who had not mei McLaughlin said 
that they could feel what kind of a person she 
wasjustbeingin the room. 

Afterwards, a local band. The Heady 




Above: Children playing in the "Little 
Friends" room. 



Somewhere between the words 

"week old" and "pizza" you begin to 

wonder, "Do I have health. insurance?" 



INTRODUCING ** 

Indigo Individual'"^ Health Insurance. 

Illness (moldy pizza-related or otherwise) doesn't core whettier or not you hove 
tiealth insurance. ThoTs why PHP Is Introducing Indigo Individual. It provides the 
essential benefits of group health Insurance to college students like yourself. 
So even if you're in school you can have insurance coverage in cose of illness or 
injury. To find out more, call us at 800-982-6257 or visit us online at phpnicom 
and click on the Indigo link. Because everyone deserves great health insurance. 



C!iD 
■■• 

PHP 

ITie insurance your health deserves. 
800-982-6257 www.phpni.com 



January 20. 2010 



OPINION 



p. 4 



Coffee Break 



by Kim Coffey 




Awards Ceremony recognizes outstanding achievers 



By Holly Eggelston 

&lt;!gghra01&amp;tlud(nb.lptw.edki 



IPFW Students, staff and faculty gather together 
every April for an evening of cetebratioit and 
appreciation at The Student Achievement Awards 
ceremony held in IPFW'sWalb Ballroom. 

"This event is held to recognize outstanding 
achievements and acknowledge hard work," explains 
April Win, the event coordinator. 

Awards are available for almost any member of 
the iPFW community, from faculty to students and 
everyone in between. 

One of the most coveted recognitions Is the 



Outstanding Student Organization Award. In order 
to win this award the group must make an impact on 
IPPiV. show support for the IPFW community and 
exhibit university pride. Last year's winner was Delta 
Sigma Pi. 

The Student's Choice Award for Teaching 
Excellence recognizes outstanding effort in teaching 
and is available for faculty only The Award for Service 
to Students is also limited to staff. 

The Student Leader of the Year Award is meant 
for students, not necessarily members of a student 
organization, who have made a significant impact on 
IPFW and shown IPFW pride. There are several new 
awards this year including the Building Block Award 
which is geared towards newer organizations and the 
Commitment to Diversity Award which recognizes 



individuals or groups that have made a difference in 
the area of diversity at IPFW. 

Everyone is encouraged to nominate 
outstanding faculty, staff or students who they 
feel deserve recognition. Nomination forms are 
available from academic departments and club 
presidents, as well as the Student Life website 
under Student Achievement Celebrations. 

The forms list the qualifications for each 
award and detailed submission instructions. 
They should be turned in to the Student Life 
Office by Wednesday, March 3 at 5 p.m. April 
Wirt can be reachetl at winaa@ipnv.edu for 
questions regarding this event. 



Rumored Apple Tablet Said to Be Announced Next Week 



By Craig Lloyd 

uaigFlloydagrulLioin 

The biggest rumor of 2009 and also this year so far 
has to be the Apple tablet. Many rumors have been 
spreading about this magical device ever since early 
last year and Apple ivill hopefully be addressing these 
rumors by announcing this so-called Apple tablet on 
Wednesday, January 27. if you have been living in a 
basement for the last several months, let me get you 
caught up. 

The Apple tablet is still very much a mystery, 
since no one really knows exactly what it ivill look 
like or even what it will be called, but there is a tot 
of evidence that gives hints to all of our questions. 
Many believe diat the device ivill be called the iSlate 
because Apple owns the islate.com domain name and 
have filed for other "slate" trademarks, but I have also 
heard iPAD, iGuide and TabletMac. Any of these are 
viable options, as well as others, but it seems Apple 
has been putting a lot of focus on the word "slate." 

As far as features, the tablet is said to have around 
a 10-inch touch screen display and an aluminum 
shell much like what you see on Apple's higher-end 
MacBook Pros. As far as the operating system goes, 
there has not been a definite agreement amongst 
reporters. Some say it will be running iPhone OS and 
others say it will be based off of Mac OS X. According 
to Boy Genius Report, they received a tip from an 
Apple insider who says the tablet will be running 
tPhone OS. There's a strong rumor that will not have 
any kind of camera. Physical buHons on the device 
are still up in the air and have not received much 
discussion. It has also been said that the device will 
most likely have Wi-Fi and 3G capabilities. 

ThepriceoflheApple tablet is probably everyone's 
biggest question and 1 have heard the same price 
range from many different sources - between S700 
and $1,000; this thing will not be cheap. Steve Jobs 
pretty much told us himself that it ivill not be under 
$500. 



"We (Apple) don't know how to build a sub-S500 
computer that is not a piece of junk," said Jobs. 

As far when it will hit consumers, you can probably 
expect it no earlier than March and no later than June 
of this year. The Wall Street journal heavily reports 
that it ivill come in March and iLounge.com says it 
will come in May or June, so there is reaJly no definite 
agreement amongst reporters and analysts on when 
it should officially arrive. 

Besides xasuat design students, this device will not 
do much for students. Tablets are alt about steering 
away from traditional ways of interacting with 
computers. This means sajing goodbye to the mouse 
and keyboard and saying hello to voice commands 
and finger-swiping gestures. So, all of those long 
research papers and in-class notes that you need to 
ivrite will most likely want to be done on your laptop 
like it was meant to be. Granted, the Apple tablet will 
most likely have an on-screen QWERTY keyboard, 
but it ivill not play nicely with prolonged sessions 
of paper writing and note taking. However, I see 
the Apple tablet, as weL as other tablets, eventually 
replacing eBook readers. This means that the device 
will be great for reading textbooks. As of now, though, 
there are still a large percentage of textbooks out 
there that are not in digital form, so it could take 
awhile before we see the tablet be used for something 
like that. 





January 20, 2010 



OPINION 



i 



Smoke Hut Diaries 



By Robin Crowell 

rotjiriyounirdvcegrruil com 



"Spread fhe love but 
choose your friends 
wisely," - Chuck Ragan, 
; "For Goodness Sake" 

During the first week 
of classes ii became 
evidenc that alliances 
from the prior smoke 
hui community still 
hold golden and inje. 
There are a handful of 
us thai have repeatedly 
been in attendance at 
Uie same hul over the 
lasl few semesters and 
some even years. 

The new people 
iha[ 1 have noticed 
coming into the hut 
seem somevvhai lost on 
what to make of the hut 
staples. Seemingly it 
would almost come off 
as a 'smoke hut clique' 
of sorts. It would be 
unfair to say this is a 
false statement but at 
tlie same lime it is not 
my intention to exclude 



a new face. 

With every new 

individual comes a new 
story. In a way we all 
need lo break our oivn 
barriers, read some 
of these stories. It all 
starts with one simple 
statement of "Hey, I'm 

(_ J, how are you?" 

The possibilities that 
may potentially unfold 



though, there is not 
more ofa risk is walking 
out of your front door 
each morning. 

It is my mission to all 
ofyou to step out of your 
boundaries and talk to 
someone new, ai least 
once a week... if not 
more. Wc familiarize 
ourselves with our close 
circle of friends, our co- 



"What saddens me mast about 
people not making the effort to say 
hello or meet a stranger is that most 
are afraid to encounter this risk of 
metting a potential foe or enemy." 



are countless. Out of 
this one simple gesture, 
a hand shake, a smile; 
you may find a friend, a 
lover, a foe or an enemy. 
What saddens me 
most about people not 
making the effort to say 
hello or meet a stranger 
is that most are afraid 
to encounter this risk 
of meeting a potential 
foe or enemy. Really, 



workers, our family and 
that is aU fine and good 
but we all seem to be 
missing the big picture 
when it comes to being 
well-rounded people. I 
am guilty of it, you are 
guilt&gt;' of it, our friends 
and family are guilty 
of it. We have to take 
matters into our own 
hands to try to resolve 
this problem of close 



knitting. 

We all meet for 
a reason; there is a 
time and a place for 
everything, i have no 
idea where I would be 
today, though, had ii not 
been for my going oui 
on a limb and getting 
to know someone that 
maybe I judged by their 
appearance. Maybe 
I judged them by the 
group they ran with. 
Maybe 1 fudged them 
because they looked 
at me the wrong way. 
Se^ceral of the people 
closest to me are people 
that i never thought 1 
would get along with, 
see eye to eye with, and 
some I never thought 
I would see again the 
rest of my life. Make 
acquaintances, make 
small talk. make 
connections. It is better 
to get to know someone 
and discover a monster 
of a person than to 
never talk to someone 
and miss out on an 



For the Love of Traveling 



By HanaAl Hawash 

hanjhawasheyahoo.fom 




"Every meal is a celebration, 
every talk is a debate and 
every evening is a party." 



Cincinnati: definitely not 
a lot of difference from Fort 
Wayne there. Just visiting 
some relatives, but the part 
that makes it so different 
for me is where my relatives 
come from. My dad's sister, 
Lubna, moved to Cincinnati 
about three years ago. She 
is from Palestine, like my 
father, and so is her husband. 
So, going to visit may not 
provide a change in scenery, 
but it definitely makes me 
feel like I am half a world 
away. 

The cit\ itself is pretty 
much the same as Fort 



Wayne. No mountains, the morning. 

barely any hills and a lot During the day, we usually 

of farms. There are upper all go to my aunt's and hang 

class neighborhoods with out. When we get together, 

Mercedes SLTVs in their we are all happier. We are a 

family; we 
make fun of 
each other, 
dance to 
our parents 
singing 
funny old 
down Buicks in the front Arabic songs and listen to 
yard. Then you have the their childhood stories. We 
middle class with their eatclassic Arabic dishes and 
Hondas and Kias, just like ask for the hummus and 
Fort Wayne. But then 1 get to pita rather than the bagels 
my aunt's house, and things and cream cheese. My aunt 
start to change. does not shake my hand or 

Every meal is a coldly hug me, she kisses 
celebration, every talk is a my cheek constantly. The 
debate and every evening men definitely do not do 
is a party. My aunt lives in the dishes, but the woman 
a small apartment and one all pitch in and that, too, 
of her four children, my becomes a party. Even 
favorite cousins, is married though we are all grown, me 
and has her own house. My being the youngest at twenty 
parents stay with my aunt, years old, our dads still talk 
and I roll out to my cousin's to us like we are about to run 
house to get a break from off and cause trouble, 
them. But that is just at bed In Cincinnati, the scenery 
time, which does not usually is the same, but the culture 
come until around one in shock is powerful. 






How do you make friends 
on the first day of class? 



By Hana and Devin 



i 



Devin; 1 say, push them back and see who is 
still there. 

Hana: What do you mean? 

Devin: If they like the eagles, and you like the 
colts, do not be afraid lo say you like the colts. 
You may push some people away, but those who 
do like the colts wUI be on your side. Thats just an 
example, do not hold things back. 

Hana: I actually agree wth that. But 1 also 
Iliink that if you are feeling sort of awkward 
and do not know what to say, you could start 
but by complimenting something about them 
or asking if this is a their first time being in that 
particular professors class.Or even make a joke 
about something odd someone in class said. ..it 
lightens the mood and breaks the ice.l think my 
idea is what you start out with, and your idea is 
something you can do later into the conversation 
or relationship. 

Devin: Yes, but why prolong the inevitable? 
Win them over so when you do show your weird 
side, they might still stay? 

Hana: Well you cannot just walk up to someone 
and be like "Hey. I'm going to not like what you 
like, that way I know if you are a good friend or 
not." The conversation has to stiu"! somewhere. 
You have start a conversation, then once you are 
talking, you can do that. 

Devin: It seems like thats being ahraid to scare 
them off. i rather be completely myself and gain 
one really good h-iend then be polite and 

reserved and have friends I probably will not 
talk to after that class is over. 

Hana: Alright. See we were at different starting 
points. I was thinking in the scenario of me 
wanting to make a friend from the beginning and 
you were thinking if the opponunity presents 
itself, Ilien you'd go for it. 

Devin; Yes, I think you arc right as well. 

Hana: Alright. See we were at difTerent starthig 
points. I was thinking in the scenario of me 
wanting to make a friend from the beginning and 
you were thinking if the opportunity presents 
itself, then you'd go for it. 

Devin: I think where our opinions disagree is 
how we value the friendship that wc are making. 
I rather make a friend that will lasl longer than a 
class and become a good, close friend that i would 
hang with outside of school. Short term, semester 
friends just arc not always worth it. 

Hana; I completely agree with your point. 
I want to make true friendships, we were just 
thinking from different starting points. 




f^^ 



January 20, 2010 . Movies . Music . Theatre . 



C=3 



BE) ^\ 



3 






a. 




8y Holly Gallaway 

gallhaOT^SIudenliJpfw edu 

Music has been a pan of Kim Voder's life for a long time. When 
she was younger, however, she was considering going into the 
psychology field. Currently a junior here at IPFW, Voder has found a 
major that combines both passions: music therapy. She is planning 
on working hard to finish her degree in a total of four years- 
something that requires hard worlc, long hours and a lot of focus. 
Despite knowing what field she wants to work in. Voder does not 
have a job relating to it just yet— she works in the Admissions office 
here on campus. She says she came across the major by taking a 
survey online relating to what occupation one would excel with. 
Even further than finding a major to combine her passions, she is 
currently enrolled in a class that relates to exactly what she wants to 
do— music Oierapy in health care. Voder says it is her favorite class 
so far this semester, 

"I want 10 do research," Voder says. She also wants to be involved 
in patient care, whether in a hospital or a psychiatric ward. She has 
a lot of hard work ahead of her, tliough. After Voder graduates, she 



not only has to complete a six-month internship in her chose_ 
field, but she is also planning on anending graduate school. VodeD 
is looking at New Vork City, Soulli Carolina and Colorado. 

As a music therapy major. Voder has had to expand her musical 
ability. She branched out from the flute (her primary instrument) 
and voice (her secondary) to proficiency in guitar and piano, among 
various other instruments.The acoustic guitar is what Yotier will be 
using most frequently in her work. She says she wants to use the 
piano more, but jokes that it is rather hard to carr&gt;' a piano around 
with you. Since learning the guitar and piano. Voder has "Spent the 
last yearworking on music for others," she said. 

She does realize, however, that it is about time to start working 
on music for herself. As far as what types of music she likes. Voder 
says she has to keep an open mind. She listens to just about 
everything because she needs to have a wde range of musical 
knowledge for her work. Voder says she is considered going to 
various open mic nights around town. She does, however, know 
music therapy majors that do play around town. If and when shp 
does Stan panicipating in open mic nights, they will be the first 
people she calls. 



Page 6 




Pie in 



By Kelly McLendoi 

mclendooJietlyeqnuil tor 

Pie has always held a spc 
the heans of its fans. Wliethet 
watching your grandma maki 
pumpkin pie for rhanksgivin| 
fond memories of your elemt 
principal getting a pie in the 
i'amily Fun Night, this dessi 
to have a place in your life, 
importance of dessen at fami 
celebrations, it miiy not come 
that this Saturday, January 2; 
Pie Day, Yes, it is an entire dt 
can indulge and not feel bad, 1 
all, it is a holiday 

But National Pie Day 
In fact, the entire concept of pi 
is relatively new. 

"Pie has been around sine 
Egyptians. The first pies wc 
early Romans who may have li 
it through the Greeks. Thes 
sometimes made in "reeds" 
used for the sole purpose of 
filling and not for eating witi 
The American Pie Council sail 

They were called "savorj 
then. These included shephen 
is made with minced beef ai 
potato crust; as well as chic 
which has mixed vegetables 
chicken in a flaky ltusi. 

The modern concept of pit 
hns existed sfnc(f"ihe 'M"' .cci 
it was documented in the Ox 
Dictionary. 

But the sayinp "as Americ 
pie," originated a little furihi 
timeline when apples were b 
Europe to America. The ap 
already a popular dish there 
soon became a success in 
States. Then the demograpl 



!} 2'1/iia 

!f 2Vy3h 



Aro'si: Over Stars and Gt 
Album: Consider Viis Yo 
l^bel: Blaci. Mumbers 
Release Diiie: Re-issue 

2010 

Sounds Like: The br 

Banner Pilot and NothJngto 
Rating: 5/5 




Ihis has to be one of the 
bands [o come out of the lasi 
unfonunatety Uiey are loon 




Page 6-7 

e in the Sky: ^SlK^^&amp;Tir' 



By Kelly McLendon 

m&lt;lEnd(.n.kclly«g™i!tom 



s always held a special place in 
; of its fans. Whether you grew up 
your grandma make homemade 
pie forThanksgiving or you have 
lories of your elementary school 
getting a pie in the face during 
in Night, this dessert is bound 
place in your life. Knowing the 
ce of dessert at family meals and 
ins, it may not come as a surprise 
Saturday, January 23, is National 
'es, it is an entire day where you 
ge and not feci bad, because after 
1 olid ay. 

jt National Pie Day is fairly new. 
? entire concept of pie as a dessert 
ly new. 

IS been around since the ancient 
.. The finii pies were made by 
lans who may have learned about 
h the Greeks. These pies were 
:s made in "reeds" which were 
the sole purpose of holding the 
i not for eating with the filling," 
ican Pie Council said, 
were called "savory pies" back 
se included shepherd's pie, which 
vith minced beef and a mashed 
ust; as well as chicken pot pie, 
IS mixed vegetables, gravy and 
la flaky crust. 

odern concept of pie as a dessert 
;d sincfli the ■W'' century, vvherei 
cumented in the Oxford English 

y. 

e saying "as American as apple 
inated a little further down the 
.vhen apples were brought from 
America. The apple pie was 
popular dish there in 1780 and 
:ame a success in the United 
lien the demographic changed 



and "'Americans popularized the apple pie 
as the country became the world's largest 
apple-producing nation," according to The 

Encyclopedia of American Food and Drink. 
National Pie Day is not just about 
having dessert, though. The American Pie 
Council created the day for a reason — to 
celebrate. 

"The modern concept of pie 

as a dessert has existed since 

the 14th century, where it was 

documented in the Oxford English 

Dictionary." 



"'As part of our American heritage, this 
day is a perfect opportunity to pass on the 
love and enjoyment of pie eating and pie 

making to fijture generations," the council 
said. "The coldest of January days will be 
warmed by a special pie dessert." 

If you are not exactly the cooking type. 



you can look as close as your local Burger 
King to find the dessert today or this 

weekend. The restaurant usually serves 
Hershe/s Sundae Pie, which includes 
a cocoa crust wiith chocolate filling. 
chocolate chips and whipped cream. Also, 
they typically have Dutch Apple Pie and 
sometimes other seasonal varieties. 

For somediing not so commercial, yet 
close to campus, try Klemm's Candlelight 
Caf^ on State. There they make homemade 
pie in lots of varieties. When the sign out 
front reads that they ser\'e, "breakfast, 
lunch, pie," you know you are at the right 
place. 

But if you are up foe a short adventure, 
the short drive to Heyerly's Bakery in Ossian 
will take you to the right place. On the 
bakery's Facebook page, tlie butterscotch 
pie was recommended by a customer as 
their favorite. 

You cannot go wrong celebrating this 
holiday; not when pie is regarded by the 
Council as, "a warm hug wrapped in a 
delicious crust." Now that is special. 



Noises Off -Audition 



by Michael Frayn 
Directed by John O'Connell 
Williams Theatre 

Ferfiinnance Dales: 

April 23. 24, 29. 30 and May 1 at 8:00 p.m. 

May 2 at 2:00 p.m. 



1 




PIE AROUND TOWN: 
Klemm's Candlelight Cafe 
1207 East State Boulevard 
260-471-6828 

Heyerly's Bakery 

107 North lefferson Street 

Ossian 

260-622-4196 



^^i^ife^ 



Burger King 

All locations 
www.bk.com 

CELEBRATE EARLY: 

Check out ArtLink's "Just Desserts" Exhibit, featuring 
dessert artwork in all media. The opening reception is 
from 6-9pm at 437 East Berry Street on Friday, January 
22. Call 260-424-7195 for more information. 



The IPFW Department of Theatre will be holding 
auditions for Noises Off by Michael Frayn on Sund.iy, 
Jan. 31, 2010 at 1:30 p.m. in Williams Theatre. Noises 
Off. the classic comedy within a comedy, has been 
called the funniest farce ever written. 

Cast - The director is looking for Rve (5) men and 
four 14) women ages 18—60. 

Auditions: Actors are asked to prepare a 1-2 minute 
monologue from a contemporary' farce, preferably an 
English farce using a British dialect. 

Rehearsals: Be^n Monday, March 2, 2010 Mon. - 
Fri.. 7 — 10:00 pm and possibly Sunday afternoons or 
evenings. There will be no rehearsal during IPFW's 
spring break from March B — 13, 

Conflicts: All conllicts need to be listed at the 
audition. 

Scripts: Be advised - DON'T audition if you have 
not read the play!!! You will be asked about it on the 
audition form. Perusal copies of the script are available 
for 24 hour loan through the Department of Theatre 
office with a $5 deposit. Call the office at 260-481 -655 1. 

For Auditions 

Please prepare a 1-2 minute monologue from a 
contemporary farce. Preferably an English farce. 
'Pfed^^iise a British dialect. Thedirector will be looking 
for GOOD dialects, btit will teach the process at the 
beginning of rehearsal. 

Flaywrighis who have wrtiicn appioprlaicmonDloguca: 



British: 

Michael Frayn 
AlanAyckboum 
Joe Orton 
Allen Bennet 



American: 

Ray Cooney, Jr. 
Neil Simon 
Ken Ludwig 



2*MiaO;ROBIN'S 
JW3IV3;REVIEWS 



"1^^^ 



isl: Over Stars and Gutters 

um: Consider This Your Curse 

lel: Black Numbers 

ease Datt: Re-Issued January 12, 

inds Like: The bridge between 
r Pilot and Nothington. 
ing: 5/5 




. has to be one of the most seamless 
o come out of the last few years and 
inately they are looming far under 



the radar. 

The album opens with simplistic 
instrumentation showcased with perfection. 
Each musician in tlie band has their 
opportunity to shine and it is evident that 
the band has an understanding of each 
individual's talents needing to be showcased. 
Many of the songs are poppy without being 
campy and they fall into a genre which can 
only be described as 'whiskey punk.' 

Although each song on the album is 
fantastic in its own way, a couple of stand out 
tracks include "The Pit and the Pendulum," 
effectively named after an Edgar Allan Poe 
short sior\', which lyrically proclaims the 
feelings of inadequacy that the majority of 
this publication's readership's age group falls 
into, ''T\venty- three years and notliing to 
show accept some scars and broken hones. 
Hospital visits won't fix anything unless you 
want to fix it yourself," 

Easily the best track on the album, "Never 
Again" utilizes enough power and energy to 
render the listener speechless all the while 
invigorating the internal urge to raise their 
fists in the air and scream every last lyric to 
the song. 

Though some may say that the tracks on 
this album are too long than is typical for 
bands thai fall within this genre: the tracks 
are lengthy but they do well to hold the 
listener's interest and never get boring. 




:L Vampire W^ 

turn: Contra v 

lel: XL Recordings 

ilea5e0ate:|anuar&gt;' 12.2010 1 

' nds Like: Jungle musk" paired witbj 

inicandreggae^ '"'^"' ^'' 

" 2.575 




Vampire Weekend has a good thing going 
for them, they really do. However, this album 
is a difficult one to maintain interest in. 

First and foremost, the vocalization on 
the album is almost too strange for a random 



listener to get into and be able to appreciate. 
The intended audience either has to have 
an acquired taste for the fluctiiations the 
vocalist makes or just have a very bizarre 
understanding of what a vocalist should 
sound like. 

The first two tracks sound almost painfully 
similar, however the third track entitled 
'"Holiday" comes in and offers a slight of relief, 
It seems to blend a more 'dancj'' approach to 
the jungle style they are seemingly going for 
but blending it with some reggae implements 
throughout the verses. 

The track immediately after negates any 
redemption that "Holiday" offered by getting 
even more vocally esUimged than the two 
opening tracks. The only other song on the 
album that offers some normal sounding 
vocal styling is "Taxi Cab" which is more 
mellow with soothing vocal representation 
and bacldngmusicthatat times isreminiscent 
of an old school video game. 

This album is not bad by a long stretch, 
however its oddities can be enough to turn 
listeners away pretty quickly. Also, it seems 
diat the point that each song is trying to 
reach is proclaimed fairly early in the tracks 
which could lend cause to many listeners 
losing interest pretty quickly in each song. 
It is worth a listen, however it is probably 
something that would be ran through the 
CD player once or twice then thrown to the 
wayside. « 




Photos from the Rally for 

Rail that took place on 

January 16, 2010 at the 

Baker Street Train Station 



3 • RAJL. _•■ 




Photo by Lucas Carter / LutasCarterPholography.ct 



January 20, 2010 



STUDENT ISSUES 



OpEd 



The Downside of Employment 

Bad days show why it can be scary to have a job 



By Kelly McLendon 

tndendonliel Ij^gma i l.to m 



his coffee-making skills, sometliing 1 regteited not 
being able to do. 

Through my adventures navigating unsteady em- 
ployment, I have encountered many shocking as- 
pects of working. I have enough horror stories by now 
that J could write a book. 

But my worst horror stories go back lo my high 

school days when I worked for a not-to-be named 

famous fast-food restaurant. It was a place where 1 

learned how to wash 



I cannot seem to keep a job. it is not because I 
am not a good worker, either; it is just that I have not 
found anything that really inspires me to show up 
everyday with enthusiasm. Do not get me wrong— 1 
have never been fired from a job; usually, I just quit. 

There was the time 

I worked at a major "Through my adventures navigating unsteady t^'^hes and cut veg- 

'" "" employment I have encountered many ^'^'''"' ^™ '^' ' ^^"^ 

shocking aspects of working. I have enough 

horror stories by now that I could write a 

book." 



department store for 
four days and then 
quit because the fel- 
low workers were a 
whole lot less than 
friendly. Then there 
was the time I worked 
at an afterschool program for litde kids where I 
avoided changing diapers and ran away whenever 



embarrassingly not 
acquired by that time. 
But It was also a place 
where 1 saw how dis- 
gusting some workers 
could be when they 
making food for customers. 
Generally a few employees thought if Uiey were 



some kid needed a new one. I made the old lady who not going to eat the food they were preparing, i 
worked with me lake care of those. There is no way not matter An entire entree would fall on the floor 
$7.50 an hour is enough of a salary to get me to do and some workers would pick it up and serve it, . 



that. Seriously 

My next job took me to an office where I essential- 
ly filed and shredded papers for five hours at a time. It 
does not seem like it — but those two things are mind- 
less. A trained monkey could have done my job there. 
In fact, he probably could have done my job better. 
He likely would have impressed the managers ivith 



long as the customer did not see it. Our managers 
drilled us about reducing food cost, so some of the 
more loyal employees brushed the food off and had 
tlie customer pay for it anyway. It was disgusting. 

Also, there were times where ingredients that 
needed lo be refrigerated to reduce contaminaiion 
were not. I recaUed one situation where an employee 



left mayonnaise out in ihe hot kitchen for three hours 
and then used It on someone's meal and then joked 
about it In the backroom after the fact. 

In sixth grade home economics, my peers and I 
were forced to watch a video about a family at a pic- 
nic who ale potato salad that was left out in the hot 
sun for four hours and how that evening, they all 
ended up in the hospital witli substantial food poi- 
soning. I knew what that employee had done spelled 
disaster. Bui after my fellow worker had already made 
the meal and the customer left the restaurant, there 
was notliing I could do to tell them they might be get- 
ting 111 lliat evening. 

All I know is thai I will never order anything from 
the restaurant I worked at and 1 will also be weary 
about going to other lestauranls. Now that I know 
what could happen, I am more informed; yet not 
scared. Indeed, there is a reason why we have ati im- 
mune system. 



Now it's your turn to share your 
horrible work stories. E-mail us 
atcontact@lpfwcommunicator. , 
org and we might publish your j 
story in our next Issue. j 




January 20, 2010 



SPORTS 



p. 10 



IPFW to the world 

International student athletes 
sharing their personal stories 



By Oliver Kook 

0iivefi1ooke9maii.com 



For some of us it is a childhood 
dream ihar became reality, for others 
it is the opportunity to get a college 
education, but some just wanted to 
expand their horizon and experience steppingon the court for the lirst time. 



for leaving my life back home behind 
me to start a new chapter. The lan- 
guage problems i had in the beginning 
changed my personality quite a bit but 
over time I got used to being foreign. 

Looking back at my first match for 
IPFW, I knew I made the right choice in 
my life. I will never forget the feeling of 



knowing that I got myself into some- 
; that will change my life com- 
pletely. Of course 

I miss home, my family and my 
friends and I wish I could just jump on 
the plane to go say hi sometimes, but 
in the times of email. Facebook and 
Skj'pe, it is easy to stay in contact with 
everj'one. Regardless, not being able 
to go home for Christmas because of 
practice still feels wrong to me. 

One question 

'"■™ "If you are a student athlete and ij^v^y^ Nereis: 

meet , Are you going 

many people you want to share your StOry backhomewhen 
from many dif- with yoUr fellOW Students, please you are done 

fcrem countries feel free to contact me." "'" '"^'"""■' 

Every one of 
them has great 
stories to share, that do not get the 



a new world far away from home. 1 
ing an international student at IPFW 
can have many different backgrounds 
or reasons, but they all have the same 
vision once it comes to student athletes 
as they put on their royal blue jerseys. 

My name is Oliver Kook. I was born 
and raised in Hamburg, Germany 1 
came to IPFW in the summer of 2007. 
This is my third and final season for the 
Mastodons' men's volleyball team. 

Throughout 
my time a 



chance of being heard by many oth- 
ers. Living in a different country lakes 
away tlie chance of sharing experi- 
ences with families and friends. 'IPFW 
to the world' is the attempt to put stu- 
dent athletes from different countries 
in the spotlight; giving them a chance 



And I think 
about it every 
day, but can we honestly predict what 
is going to happen years from nowV 
Three years ago I would never have 
guessed thai I will be going lo school 
in Fort WaiTie, Indiana, but things just 
happen I guess. I play tlie sport that I 
love, while getting a college degree and 
meeting new friends from all over the 



to share their story, as well as it should world. I feel like I do my part in times 
educate our readers about different of globalization as the world moves 



countries, sports, and cultures. 

For me it was an easy transition 
to start college at IPFW. As of die first 
day, I fell like I found a new family in 
my teammates. The open-mindedness 
and the respect I got made me lose all 
my worries and concerns that I had 



closer together. 

This column will introduce other in- 
ternational student athletes from IPFW 
ever&gt;' week. If you are a student athlete 
and you want to share your story with 
your fellow students, please feel free to 
contact me. 



Health Advantage 101: 

Sleeping Habits &amp; Exhaustion 



ByAnaAguirre 

agukilOie;ludcnls.lp(w,(du 



There comes a time when ex- 
haustion sets in from school related 
events. Whether the exhaustion de- 
rives from an overioad on home- 
work, excessive partying or just a 
couple of late night study sessions, it 
is important to know your limits. 

As suggested by ivww.webmd. 
, com, 7-8hour5of sleep adayisnec- 
' essary to contribute to a healthy life- 
style. Predicting that most students 
are overly active and are most likely 
sleep deprived the consequences 
could be extreme to your health. 

Various symptoms that are most 
common if your sleeping habits are 
not up to par are bad thought pro- 
cesses, impaired memory, depres- 



sion and a weekend immune system. 

"With work and school com- 
bined, I do not get much sleep," says 
junior Jen Collins. "1 find that relax- 
ing before bed helps you to wind 
down fit)m a busy day." 

The best remedies are not brain 
science, but a Utile step in the right 
direction may reconcUe this type of 
behavior. WehMD suggests avoid- 
ing napping, cutting caffeine, avoid 
smoking (cigarettes contain caf- 
feine]. Exercise is actually recom- 
mended to help exhaust the body 
naturally. Restricting alcohol con- 
sumption is a critical amongst col- 
lege students to maintain a healthy 
sleep pattern. 

Give some of these suggestions 
a try. you may find that some quick 
fixes could lead you in the right di- 
recdon for a good night's rest. 



SNOWBOARD&amp;SKI CHEAP! 

Bus trip to Timber Ridge Resort 



S59 for Bus ancJ Lift Pass 
S64 after Jan, 24th, 2010 



Saturday, Feb. 6 



Download entry at webabychickens.com, click on 'specials' 
or call us at 489-4090 




January 20, 201 



SPORTS 



The fish Picks o-s) 


1/5:. (12-6) 


Pea Predictions 


10 Clemson- UPSET in ACC 


Duke at Clemson 


Duke- ACC best wins large 10 


9 Lady Vols- Impressive road victory 


Tennessee at LSU 


Lady Vols- Win again 9 


8 Penguins- Best players in hockey 


Capitals at Penguins 


Penguins- best team in hockey 8 


7 Pitt- Tough game upset late 


Georgetown at Pittsburgh 


G'town- Rolling, Pitt faulters 7 


6 Texas- Biggest challenge so far 


Texas at UConn 


UConn- Texas is overrated 6 


5 Lady Vols- Big test, grade W 


Tennessee at Georgia 


Lady Vols- Better in the end 5 


4 Cavs-It's the LeBron show 


Lakers at Cavaliers 


Cavs-Great game 4 


3 Syracuse-Very good at home 


Georgetown at Syracuse 


Syracuse-Great game won late 3 


2 Colts-Payback from season 


Jets at Colls 


Colts-No stopping them now 2 


1 Saints-Great offense over D 


Vikings at Saints 


Vikings-Saints fall apart 1 


By Lucas Fisher / lucarucoS@comc3st.nel 




By Logan Pea / peatl01@studenls.ipfw.edu 



60 Second 
Sports Report 



""Communicator 

A publication of Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 



By Lucas Fisher 



In the NFL this past weekend the di- 
visional playoffs were undenvay ivith the 
Colts beating the Ravens 20-3, the Saints 
destroying the Cardinals 45-14, the Vi- 
kings tearing apart the Cowboys 34-3, 
and the Jets upsetting the Chargers 17- 

14. After these results the AFC and NFC 
championship games will be the Jets at 
the Colts and the Vikings at the Saints. 
The Colts look to gain revenge on the Jets 
for ending their perfect season in week 

15. The lets are looking to show that their 
last three wins haven't been flukes. The 
Saints and Vikings look to continue their 
impressive season with offense and de- 
fense in a highly competitive matchup. 
In sad off the field news the Bears defen- 
sive end Gaines Adams passed away; he 
died of cardiac arrest from an enlarged 
heart, he was only 26 years old. 

In college basketball on the men's 
side the current top five in the AP poll 
are Texas, Kentucky, Kansas, Villanova, 
and Syracuse. In the weeks top 25 show- 
downs on Saturday 5 Syracuse held on 
against 9 WestVirginia 72-71, lOTennes- 
see sur\dved over 23 Ole Miss 71-59 in 
overtime, 18 Georgia Tech upset North 
Carolina 73-71, on Sunday 4 ViUanova 
held off 11 Georgetown 82-77, and on 
Monday 9 Kansas Slate upset 1 Texas 
71-62. On the women's side the current 
top five in the AP poll are UConn, Stan- 
ford, Tennessee, Notre Dame, and Ohio 
State. Number one UConn absolutely 
destroyed 3 Notre Dame and 6 Duke to 
continue their 57 game winning streak. 

In tennis the first major tournament 
started on Sunday The Australian Open 
has seen some drama in the first tivo 
days of the tournament. In the men's 



Juan Martin del Potro won his match in 
four sets, Rafael Nadal struggled early 
but pulled out the win in three sets, and 
Radek Step an ek was upset by Ivo Kar- 
lovic in five sets. On the women's side 
Justine Henin won in her comeback in 
straight sets, and Maria ECirilenko upset 
Maria Sharapova in three sets. 

In the NBA the top five in the power 
rankings are the Cavaliers, the Lakers, 
the Jazz, the Spurs and the Magic. In 
dunk contest news defending champion 
Nate Robinson will compete this year to 
defend his crown as well as Gerald Wal- 
lace, Shannon Broivn and the winner 
of a dunk-in (a matchup between Eric 
Gordon and DeMar DeRozan), LeBron 
James who said last year that he would 
enter the contest has backed out. 

In the NHL the top five in the power 
rankings are the Blackhawks, the Sharks, 
the Devils, the Capitals, and the Preda- 
tors. 




Aaron Greene 
Editor-in-Chief 

Kelly McLendon 
Managing Editor 

Hana Al Hawash 
Copy Editor 

Craig Lloyd 
A&amp;E Editor 

Peter Schnellenberger 
Politics &amp; Money 

Monica Gerdeman 
Sports Editor 

Kassi Galbreath 
Graphic Design 



Lucas Carter 
Photography 
Editor 

Alisha Humbert 
Ad Manager 

Matt McClure 
Publisher 



IPSNInc 

Walb Union Suite215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN -leSOS 

Newsroom / Editor 

(260)481-6584 

cantact®ipfwcommunicator.org 

Advertising 

(260)481-6563 

ads@ipfwcommunicaIof.org 

Publisher 

(260)481-6585 

publisti er^ipfwcomm unia tororg 

Official Web site 

ht^ J/www. ipfwcom m un icatof.of g 

Do you have a story idea? 

tell us at stonesaipfwa)mmunicator.oig 




ot [ITW. m cmplojtci a 



Photo from zeenews.cam 



IMiuiatt uc ihc uftnioiu of T)e 1 
cvrnvAi du mx naxiaiily rclkci thi; \icvn 
is iiudcni body. A cDlumo u sslrfy ibc oprnion of iu autfof. 

llKC.mniuniatBHckcmciftspiKno Leiloi lo Ihc Eilillirimw b: 
it^asl. (laled and accompanied by a nintnl jiJiio&gt;, Idcphoit numba 
anJ ctxu ila]ijb]^iiu}nr gr iitk lif applKsbkl, l-cQm Kt mccfing dv?if 
lajmrcmcJlu uilE ru&lt; b; CDAudfrcd Hit publiduon 

AH suhmis-sions made ™ e-mail nil! lie wrifltd by Irfcpliont' or 
in pcno a lUdicsse^ oiidtdqihoncnii mbcix W3\ nol be published. 

Submissions miu be cn^d. and no riioit Ihan 700 wonk. 

Ttie tdilortal (X)anJ iitlTic Communicalot rescives IhP righr lo 
Ltlil-al] sibmissions tor luigiJ). gnimrtur. scytc. and dariiy- Icncn 
diN^mnl poiumioHy lit&gt;elous by die eUiiorbil boord wiO nol be 
published under any ci 



January 20, 2010 



SPORTS 



p. 12 



^^^p*y^ 


\f-^ 








w^ ^^ 


pm.^ 


1^^^ 



Women's basketball team 
shows no sign of letting up 

Tied atop Summit League standings 



Women's Basketball: Junior, Jordan Zuppe, taking the ball dawn the 
coart in the game against UIVIKC. 



By Logan Pea 

In tlie first portion of a Men's/Wom- 
en's double header Saturday afternoon, 
the IPFW Women's basketball team fell 
to the University of Missouri-Kansas 
City 76-64. The loss was the first Sum- 
mit League conference loss of the sea- 
son, dropping their record to 7-9 over- 
all and 5- 1 in conference play. Any time 
your record in the conference "drops" 
to 5-1, 1 would say things are still look- 
ing up. Solid play by IPFW sophomore 
guard Anne Boese kept the Dons in the 
game throughout the afternoon. The 
points-in-the-paint category was dom- 
inated by the Kangaroos, as they out- 
scored IPFW 32-16. IPFW found three 
women reaching double figures in the 
loss; Chelsey Jackson with 15, Jordan 
Zuppe with 12, and Stephanie Rosado 
with 1 1. 

/\nne Boese got the game rolling for 
I I'RV on the first sJiot of the game as 
she buried a 3-point jumper to jump- 
start her big afternoon. The two teams 
went basket-for-basket. and the game 
was close all throughout the first half. 



until UMKC ended the half ivitli a big 
t^vo-point jumper to put IPFW in a M- 
28halftimehole. 

Unfortunately for the Dons. UMKC 
came out rolling in the second halfand 
extended their lead to ten just five min- 
utes into play. With 10:35 remaining 
in the game, Chelsey Jackson knocked 
down a pair of free tosses from the 
charity stripe to cut the UMKC lead to 
three. Each time IPFW seemed to cut 
into the UMKC lead, it seemed as if the 
ball would just bounce the way of the 
Kangaroos. With just over three min- 
utes to go, IPFW found themselves in a 
fourteen point hole, and coming back 
with that short of time seemed just out 
of reach, and the Dons were defeated 
for the first time in conference play. 

The loss tied the IPFW with UMKC 
atop the Summit League Standings, 
and the Dons show no signs of letting 
up. Wednesday, January 20. the Women 
return to the Gates Center looking to 
send out non-conference foe Chicago 
State at 7 p.m, before they head on the 
road to battle North Dakota State, and 
South Dakota State on January 23, and 
January 25. 



Hot start pushes Dons past Kangaroos 

Yearby flirts with history 



By Logan Pea hitting a triple. Shortly after, it was 

peaiioienudenu,ipfw.*du Nick Daniels wlh 17:38 to go knocking 

down a three pointer of his own. Bolts 
would hit one last three pointer with 
The IPFW Men's Basketball squad sixteen minutes to go to add to his 
took the floor Saturday night for their sixteen points for the game and give 
second game in three nights. Anyone IPFWa't9-321ead. IPFWwould control 
worriedaboutfatiguepossiblybeingan the game for the rest of the evening, 
issue was proven "wrong " early as the and the crowd began to realize that 
"Dons opened up an 8-2 lead thanks to the big man inside was flirting with 
a pair of three-balls by ZachPlackmeier what would be only the second triple- 
and Ben Botls, then Plackmeier double in IPFW history. With under 
again on a jumper. IPFW found their a minute to go, Deilvez Yearby had 
leading scorer Saturday eveiung being 12 points, 10 rebounds and 9 blocks, 
sophomore guard Jeremy Mixon. With just eighteen seconds remaining, 
Mixon tallied 
17 points for 
IPFW, including 
six in a row mid 
way through the 
second haJf. 

UMKC (8-9) 
never had a lead, 
and never tied 



"...and the crowd began to 

realize that the big man inside 

was flirting with what would be 

only the second triple-double in 

IPFW history." 



Alex Bazzell of 

UMKC drove 

into the lane 

and went up to 

attempt a lay- 
Being just 

one block short, 

Yearby leapt into 
■ to swat 
the game all night Every time the the ball, and did so much to the delight 
Kangaroos seemed to make a run to of the fans. Unfortunately, the whistle 
get back into the game, it was someone blew and Yearby was handed his fifth 
different stepping up each time for the and final foul of the contest and the 
'Dons. With 13:1B to go in the first half, block was wiped clean. Yearby would 
UMKC cut the lead to 10-6 on a pair of have became the second player to net 
&amp;ee throws, then shortly after it was a triple-double only behind former 
John Peckinpaugh netting a jumper IPFW player Demetrius Johnson who 
which sparked a 12-2 run for the 'Dons ironically had his triple against UMKC 
extending their lead to 22-10. The in 2007. 

two teams would trade baskets for the The 78-69 victory was the second 

remainder of the half, until Ben Botts in a row for IPFW improving the 'Dons 
knocked down liis second triple of the to 8-9 overall and 3-4 in the Summit 
night to send IPFW into the break with League. The Men's squad hits the road 
a 36-28 lead. this weekend for a pair of games at ^en's Basketball: Junior, Ben Botts, going up for a shot in the game 

The second halfwould start just the North Dakota Slate and South Dakota against UMKC 
way the first half ended with Ben Botts State. 




Alt Photos by Luus Carter / LuusCanerPhatQgraphy.ee 



