Indiana University • Purdue Univ ersity • Fort Wayne 

The Communicator 

IKKinF* ■ A shining cast ■ IPFW-IUPUI game a nailbiter ■ Dyan Cannon coming 

IMJIL/L. 'Arms And The Man' well worth Mastodons lose by three points in Oscar nominated actress to sive 
the effort to see. Page 7 a competetive game. Page 10 keynote at Tapestry. Page 2 



Volume 34, Issue 22 



www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Wednesday, March 3, 2004 



Construction said to tear down workers 



Over two dozen protesters 
picketed Waterfield - Campus 
Housing Friday, citing labor dis- 
putes and skirting of the law in the 
ongoing controversy involving 
IPFW's first student housing loca- 

Past and present project work- 
ers, union officials and some IPFW 
students joined in solidarity to the 
occasional honks of horns from 
likeminded drivers seeing the pro- 
testers at the Crescent Avenue 
entrance of the housing. 

"Those workers are being 
exploited. They're standing up and 
that's a big step," Tom 
Lewandowski said. Lewandowski 
is the president of the Workers' 
Project and Northeast Indiana 
Central Labor Council. 

The exploration took different 
forms during the construction of 
the buildings, ranging from being 
underpaid to having their own 
safety endangered. In recent court 
cases and stale agencies finding, 
subcontractors have settled out of 
court on cases brought forward by 



workers, and been fined thousands 
for safety violations at the site. 
Other wage dispute lawsuits are 
still pending in Allen County 

Former workers were also 
picketing the site, stating their con- 
cerns and handing out flyers to 
passing motorists about the 
approximately $25 million project. 

"We want more attention so 

make a change. A lot of my people 
are afraid to come out -- but not all 
of them," Abraham Desantiago 
said. Desantiago had worked on 
the building. After he and others 
were allegedly let go, being told 
they weren't needed any more, he 
witnessed other workers doing his 
former duties at the site. 

"We work really hard. We 
worked seven days a week and all 
of the sudden they came out and 
said our job is done. And then we 
see people are out there working 
and doing our job," he said. 

Lewandowski noted while 
there were many concerns, the pri- 
mary one was with the mistreat- 
ment of parts of the construction 






related to this - i 

workers being exploited, ' 

Lewandoski explained. 

Lewandowski noted the 
workers were using their First 
Amendment rights of freedom of 
speech and freedom of assembly - 
and by them taking that action, 
other local unions have decided to 
stand with the non-union workers. 

"We told them 'If you show 
courage, we'll show solidarity, '" hu 

The solidarity comes follow- 
ing numerous allegations of wage 
debates from cases where subcon- 
tractors allegedly underpaid 
numerous workers under the scale 
set by federal and state guidelines 
for a publicly-funded project. A 
number of fines have also been 
levied against companies on the 
site for safety violations, according 
to inspectors who have looked at 
the safety of the workers at the new 

IPFW officials have had tittle 
ibout the controversy, 



Continued on Page 2 Workers picket the stud. 





Over 75 emails claiming to be from IPFW administers were sent 
in February. Officials are now trying to find out who did it and how. 

'Fakemailz' causing 
some real problems 



Recent emails that appeared 
to be from IPFW administrators 
have been sent to more that 75 
recipients. 

The messages seemed to be a 
forward from Dean of Students, Dr, 
Donna Bialik to Chancellor 
Michael War-tell. More than 75 
emails have been sent using 
Bialik's account. At least one email 
was sent from Wartell's account. 

The email was a copy of a let- 



ter of resignation from a former 
senator to Bialik. 

"I'm kind of shocked that my 
little letter caused this much trou- 
ble," said Christopher Lung, the 
former Ways and Means Chairman 
for the Student Senate. 

Bialik commented, "We don't 
know who did it, but we are inves- 
tigating." 

A complaint was filed with 
campus police. According to an 
official, no threats or pornography 

Continued on Page 3 



IPFW student dies while 
on vacation in Colorado 



An IPFW student visiting 
family and friends in Pueblo, 
Colorado died Friday, Feb. 27. 

Michael Jason Rice, 25, of 
New Haven was a freshman at 
IPFW. He was preparing to enter 
U.S. Army basic training this 
spring. He was hospitalized last 
week after injuring his heel. 

The cause of his death wasn't 
immediately known. An autopsy 
was expected. His body was being 
transported back to Indiana. ■ 

Rice had worked as a clerk for 
IPFW's Walb Student Union since 
the beginning of fall semester, 
according to coworkers. 

"We're totally shocked. We 
were surprised to find out he got 
injured last week and to find out he 
passed away blew our minds," Blix 
Fredrick said. She is the facility 
manager of Walb Union. 

She considered him an 
employee who kept customers in 
mind and kepi coworkers giggling 




Michael Rice was an employee 
with Walb Student Union 
Information Desk. He died 
Saturday in Colorado. 

"He will be remembered for 
his practical jokes," Fredrick noted. 
She also said he was very dedicat- 

Services for Rice will be 

Thursday at E. Harper &amp; Son 
Funeral Home in New Haven 

beginning at 11 a.m. with calling an 



hour before the service begins. 
Along with the hour prior to the 
funeral, friends and family may 
visit a calling at the funeral home 
on Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. and 
again from 6-8 p.m. 

Rice is survived by his wife, 
Jessica; son, Michael Jr., both of 
Fort Wayne; his mother and step- 
father, Gail (Richhart) and Ed 
Claymiller of Fort Wayne; his 
father and step-mother, Thomas 
and Danielle Rice of Pueblo West, 
Colorado He is also survived by 
his half-sister, Christina Rice of 
Fort Wayne; and step-brother, Ben 
Perry, of Fort Wayne. 

Rice will be buried at Scipio 
Cemetery. 

He is the third member of 
IPFW to die unexpectedly in the 
last three months. Anthropology 
Professor Paul J. Provost, 58, died 
Dec. 24 after a bout with pneumo- 

On Jan. 6, volleyball assistant 
coach Tony Laux, 32, was killed 
after a fall in Puerto Rico. 



The games people play can be Universal 



Looking for something to do on a 
Friday night? Something that doesn't 
cost much, if any, money and you can 
have a great time with? 

If so, then check out the Universal 
Gaming Associations IPFW chapter. 
Every Friday from 5 p.m. until 9 p.m., 
the UGA holds gaming sessions on 
and off campus. There are a variety of 
gaming formats offered, and anyone 
attending is welcome to bring their 



Dragons. Although there are many 
misconceptions about D&amp;D, the true 
nature is one of fun and friendship. 

"It's a really fun game, everyone 
knows how to play it. It's role playing 
and strategy," UGA President Paula 
Brandt said. 

There are many versions of the 
game available, and the UGA offers 
only a few do to limited Dungeon 
Masters. Currently they have a cam- 
paign of Orb3, which has been run- 
ning for about a year, and they are 
beginning one of Verrium and Dark 
Ages Vampire. 

Mike Sharp has been Dungeon 

Continued on Page 9 




7 leads a group through a D&amp;D adventu 



11 



'Step Afrika' gives 
IPFW students 
insight, entertainment 
while perfortning at 
the Studio Theatre 




Spring Break 2004 



Dozens of students 
are traveling during 
Spring Break. Here's 
some helpful hints 
and safety tips. 




Page 2 The Communicator 



News 



March 3, 2004 



Tapestry 
to feature 
Dyan 
Cannon 



Parkview Women's Health 
Center will present, 'Tapestry: A 
Day for Women" Api " " 
Hall T 



'Step Afrika' moves entertain, 
educate university students 



Step, step, side to side; more like stomp, 
clamp, clamp, stomp, ugh! 

' On Feb, 25, IPFW students witnessed the 
forming of a new art form that has been over- 
shadowed for years through the moves of Step 
Afrika. 

"I was pleased to see a group of young, 
black, professional male and females expressing 
themselves through the art of dancing," IPFW 
student Teranee Oxendine expressed. 

Once a main attraction at universities, 
stepping was not fully welcomed into modem 
day .ictivities or school activities dwell. 

As Step Afrika, a six-member group of 
college graduates, synchronized their fraternity 
and sorority roots with a diverse twist of cultur- 
al awareness, as it look center stage it was 
unclear to what was expected. However, as roll 
call began to become a phrase of clarification, 
the rhythmic sounds from the hands, feet and 
voice presented a new way of communicating, 
stepping. 

This style could once be seen on every 
university across America and has become the 
key element in Step Alrik.i's approach to cultur- 
al education, 

Incorporating the exchange of different 
cultures from various countries, with an empha- 
sis on Africa, Step Alrik.i's mission is to bridge 
the gaps of education and cultural knowledge 




not only to Americans 
but people from other 
countries and back- 
grounds as well. 

Darius Gordeen, 
founder of the group, 
has founded Step I 
Afrika in two othei 

America and he also I 
has an active role in the | 
stage performance. I 
which gives a glimpse I 
of this creative art form, 
founded in America, i 
(Made in America) and 
how it has become pop- 
ular in other regions in A member of Step Afrika encourages IPFW students to keep their feet 
a more upbeat, move moving while showing them a routine. Step Afrika was one of over a 
out of the seat sort of dozen activities sponsored by IPFW during Black History Month and 
way. held a show at the Studio Theatre in Kettler Hall on Feb. 25. 

The storyline 
itself gives history of the traditional pledges to good," IPFW student Jenelle Davis said, 
fraternities and sororities with a twist of mod- Throughout the performance history of 

em musical chorus and an ear full of sound to the old coal mines in Africa was a topic por- 
adhere to directly from the feet and hands. n-ayed by this art form. As the stage began to 

It was a storyline surprising to some settle from the shakes set upon the floor, stu- 
IPFW students. dents and staff learned the basics of stepping. 

"I enjoyed it. Although I thought it was One IPFW student felt it was entertaining 

going to be centered around African culture and enlightening. 

instead of fraternal means. Still with my per- "Hilarious The stepping was good, inter- 

sonal misinterpretation about its content it was esting and educational," Tayo Ojo said. 



Photo provided by Elmt 



Construction site troubled by labor, safety concerns 



11 room 142. 
The day's run through will be 
follows ^■^■^■Hpjajpjp^p^pj 
;islration B^^V| 

at V 
.m. local- B 
in Gates IB^ 
. o r t s ■ 

fol- H 
■c! by ^H 
morning ^^|Em^Vm 
'st speak- ■] 

I) ol U^^p^fl 

»el whose ^| 
topic will be Cannon: twice 
"Myth Emily nominated for the 
Dickinson." Oscar, 

From 
9:30 a.m. to 10 a.m., from 11 a.m. to 
11:30 a.m., and from 2:15 p.m. to 
4:30 p.m., participants will be able 
to shop at the boutique and trade 
show or take time to ask questions 
about the Parkview Women's 
Health Center. 

From 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. will be 
the breakout session. This will be 
the time to choose which session to 

The second breakout session 
will be from 11:30 until 12:30 and 
lunch will be held around 12:45 at 
Cates Sports Center. 

At 1:15 p.m., the keynote 
speaker will be Dyan Cannon. She 
will be speaking about her life and 
the lives of others who have hit it 
big. Her hour-long speech is titled; 
"Lakers, Lip Gloss and Life in 
Hollywood." 

There are two breakout ses- 
sions (or the duration of the day. 

The whole day, starting at 8 
a.m. and ending around 5 p.m., 
will cost $50 per person. 
Registration and payment dead- 
line is April 21 Dm- to limited seat- 
ing, this day could be sold out 
before the actual deadline. 

If using mail, mail to the fol- 
lowing address: Tapestry c/o 
IPFW 2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Kettler 142 Fort Wayne, In. 46805- 
1499. Make checks payable to 
IPFW or register online at 
www.ipfw.edu/tapestry. 

If in need of any additional 
information, or to request special 
services, call 481-6854. 

HTM program slates dinner events for spring 



stating in the past the school has few controls 
over the project. The project was approved by 
Purdue University, and they have exercised 

some authority by forcing a few contractors off 
the project. 

The lack ol comments Ironi officials didn't 



surprise protest orgam/ers, saving it is not 
uncommon in this situation. 

"It's a reflection ol the way people in posi- 
tions of authority dodge responsibility. It didn't 
start with IPFW, it happens in a lot of places," 
lewandowski said. According to him, this type 
of behavior on the part of some businesses isn't 
uncommon on many public projects. Because of 
that, officials must scrutinize business practices 
like the campus housing even closer, he said. 

"It's about starting to gci people in author- 
ity to be more responsible,'' l.ewandowski said. 

The picketing began at about 6 a.m. and 
lasted till noontime on Feb. 27. A handful of 
IPFW students joined the protest, but it was a 
small handful. 

"It's too bad that people can't see the bigger 
picture," IPFW student Marcus Rogers noted. 
He was one of three standing at the Crescent 
Avenue entrance and holding up a few signs in 
support of the workers. Two other IPFW stu- 
dents also took up positions thai morning, but 
likewise, there were questions about how seri- 
ous other students would take the situation - 
and what, if anything, they might do. 




K.E. Cos 

A protestor gives an opinion of the housing 
construction of IPFW Friday. 

"Students are so inactive on this campus," 
IPFW student Michael Hcnsk-v complained. 

Amiee Younger, a graduate student who 
works with Labor Studies, said she wants basic 
standards adhered to. 

"My biggest concern is 1 want IPFW and 
Purdue to enforce the contract they have with 
the builders and making sure that minimum 



wage laws, safetx precautions are all abided by," 
she said. 

She is also concerned about the structures 
themselves, wondering aloud if they are going 
to be up to safety code when completed and 
questioning what inspections have taken place 
thus far. 

Lewandowski explained the CLC is a col- 
lection of a number of union organizations in 
Fort Wayne, and this is the type of situation - ( 
where they would show support to any work- 
in this situation, the allegations tend to 
focus on the use of Latino workers who have 
been taken advantage of due to their limited 
English skills and non-understanding of fair 
labor practices. It is something Desantiago 
noted with a combination of annoyance and 
determination. 

"In the United States and everywhere, my 
race is getting exploited the most. But we're 
going to make a change," Desantiago said. 

For Purdue and IPFW, institutions which 
are structured to teach young adults how to 
fight for justice, Lewandowski feels it is an 
opportunity to show by actions an ability to do 
what is right. The silence, he indicated, can be 
deafening. 

"IPFW's philosophy is about leadership. 
It's time for them to step up," Lewandowski 



In cooperation with the tourism businesses of Fort 
Wayne and northeastern Indiana, IPFW's Hospitality and 
Tourism Management (HTM) Program is offering a number 
of events this spring. Under the direction of Professor John B. 
Knight, the dinners will offer value for the dollar, cuisine, 
and in some cases, wine tastings, to the dining public. 

Students in the class are responsible for designing the 
menus as well as preparing and serving the meals at the 
events. The IPFW Dinner Series Toast begins each meal 
promptly at the time noted below All proceeds benefit the 
Director's Fund, the HTM Program, or the HTM Student 
Club. You can also view dinner menus or information about 



the program. Some of the programs in March are: 

Wednesday, March 17 - Classic Caf£ presents "An 
Evening of Elegance" at The Eagle's Nest in Columbia City 
at 6:30 p.m. The cost is $30 per person. For the dinner menu 
and reservations, call Amy at 260-637-8328. 
• Sunday, March 21 - Auburn House Restaurant and 
Catering presents "A Night Among the Classics" at the 
Auburn Cord Duesenberg Museum in Auburn at 6:30 p.m. 
Hors d'oeuvres, cash bar, silent auction, and the museum 
will also be available. The cost is 520 per person. For tbe din- 
ner menu and reservations, call Louise at 260^181-6562. 
' Wednesday, March 24 - IPFW presents "An Enchanted 



ditorial Board 



Scott M. Lawson, Editor 
S.G. WahlberR, Managing Editor 
Kurtls Meyers, Arts &amp; Entertainment Editor 
Nick West, Sports Editor 
Katie Prullt, Copy Editor 
Alicia Layton, On Campus Editor 
K.E. Casey, Chief Reporter 
Josh Vargas, Advertising Designer 
: Reynolds, Publisher 



Contact Us 

The Communicator 
Walb Union; Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Editor: (260)481-6584 

Publisher: (260)481-6585 

Advertising: (260)481-6583 

Fax: (260)481-6045 

rY.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Spring Evening on the Lake" at the Potawatomi Inn in 
Angola at 6:30 p.m. and a silent auction. The cost is $25 per 
person. For the dinner menu and reservations, call Lori at 
260418-3924. 

Tuesday, March 30 ■ Ivy Tech State College presents 
"Caribbean Nights" at the Ivy Tech State College at 6:30 p.m. 
The cost is $50 per person. For the dinner menu and reserva- 
tions, call lean IJireley al 260-493-1164. 
* Wednesday, March 31 - IPFW presents "The Best of 
Indiana" at The Nolt Family Dinner Haus at 6:30 p.m. The 
cost is S25 per person. For the dinner menu and reservations, 
call Mike at 260-637-5227 or e-mail m.scheele@verizon.com. 

Editorial Policy 



Trie Communicator. Th&lt; 
s expressed do 



Ail submissions made ' 

mail will be verified by tele- 
phone or in person. Addresses 
ot IPFW, ils and telephone numbers will not 



solely the opinion ot 



The Con 



responses from 



:eaderv 

Letters to the Editor and guest 
s must be signed, dated 
rompanied by a current, 



wel- 400 \ 



The editorial board of The 
Communicator reserves the 

rii:lil in edit all submissions for 

length, grammar, style and clar- 

vahd address, telephone number ity. Letters deemecf 



:tndniL:/in 



and class 

Letters 

requirements will \io\ betonsid 
ered for public"'— 



f libelous bv 
— be 



March 3, 2004 



News 



The Communicator Page 3 



'Fakemailz' causing trouble 

from Page 1 



were in the email. Since the mes- 
sage only contained information, 
police are going to keep a record of 
the incident. 

The email was sent using 
fakemailz.com, which offers 
Internet mail services, such as 
anonymous and fake email. 

After Bialik discovered that 
emails had been sent using her 
email address, she contacted the 
website to make a complain! show- 
ing that the message that was sent 
via their service was a violation of 
their Terms of Service. 

"You agree not to use the 
Service to impersonate any person 
or entity, including, but not limited 
to, a Fake Mailz official, forum 
leader, guide or host, or falsely 
state or otherwise misrepresent 
your affiliation with a person or 
entity," stated the website. 

After the site reviewed 
Bialik's complaint, they provided 
the account information and an 
investigation is currently under- 

The site also states that "Mails 
found in violation of these items 
may be subject to immediate dis- 
closure of original information to 



the receiver without prior notifica- 
tion, and their account holders 
subject to banishment from the 
FakeMailz.com network." 

Bialik mentioned that because 
her account was used, she would 
probably have another faculty 
member deal with the disciplinary 
actions because she wasn't sure if 
she could be unbias. 

Student Body Vice President, 
John Berry's worry is, "The biggest 
concern I have is if you can get into 

else can you get into?" 

Bialik said that the email was 
sent through the Fake Mailz web- 
site, not using IPFW's email server. 

"Right now, it didn't hurt any- 
body, but it could be used later on 
to do some damage," Berry said. 

If it is deemed necessary, all 
mail coming from the website can 
be blocked, noted Bialik. 

Berry raised another potential 
problem, "If I get an email that I've 
been kicked out of school ... there's 
always a possibility of greater 
harm being done." 

According to Bialik, she can't 
the details, but there 
current investigation. 



Admissions announces 
potential scholarships, 
upcoming online chat 

The IPFW Office of Admissions recently announced 
scholarships for out of state students. 

The IPFW Admissions Office has 50 Chancellor Merit 
Awards that are available to students that are not legal resi- 
dents of the state of Indiana. 

The scholarship allows nonresidents to pay in-state 
fees. High school seniors must rank in the top 25 percent of 
their graduating class and have an SAT score of 1100 or an 
ACT scdre of 24 or above. 

International students should contact International 
Student Services advisor Connell Nelson at 
nelsonc@ipfw.edu. 

There are also scholarships For Indiana Residents. 

There are several Freshman Scholarships available 
for the Class of '04. Our Chancellors Scholarship will pay 
1/2 tuition and is renewable for four years. For criteria and 
details, please contact the Admissions Office. 

There is an online chat scheduled for March 15, 2004 
hosted by the Office of Admissions to help inform potential 
incoming students of the university. 



$479: 



4&amp; 5 Night Packages 



BEACHFRONT HOTEL -i.h r/t a, s T,S u ,r *»""•-"- 
""**" 6 HEALS AND 3 NIGHTS ALL-INCLUSIVE CLUB ACCESS. 



1-800-SURFS-UP 



Nilinar Hair, Skin, 
and Nails 

6© 1 6 Brandy Chase cove 

(ISO) 486-4951 
Tell Free: 888-486-4959 

Offering: -Haircuts y 

-Facial Waxing x &lt;&gt;* 
-Body Massage j$ 

Buy One Set One Free! 
Service of Equal or lesser value. 

■t - Aprti 30lh. 2004. Appointment* 



-limited time only: / 
mutt be beaked In a, 

tcrlltltaleto the referring rllent In the amount at tha ten/Ice at 
equal or letter value attar tha ratarrad client hat rerleved their 



a appointment. Mlllni 



Members of organized time 




Photo fey Amie Sorka 



IPFW students Shelly Nickolson and freshman Sarah Goudy discuss the variety of student organi- 
zations at the university Monday. This week, Get Involved is running a campaign to introduce stu- 
dents to the over 90 organizations at IPFW with areas set up in each of the main halls of campus 
buildings. The idea is to give students options from the different organizations, and hope for more 
involvement through encouragement to make memories while at college. 



The Communicator 

will not publish the week of Spring Break 2004. 

Have a good and safe week of vacation. 

The paper will return March 17. 









Campu 


_. IPFW 

S w 




Calend 


ar- • ^ 

for March 4-17, 2004 




4 SAB event: Comedians Alfred and 


I S Spanish Table: Come eat and talk with 




Seymour, WU Ballroom, noon; for 


us! (Vengan a conversar y comer con 




information, cal 1 6590. 


nosotros!) WU lounge, noon; also 
March 22 and 29. For information, call 




Theatre: Arms and the Man, WT, 


4660 or e-mail c on to rtm{o) ipfw.edu. 




8 p.m.; also March S and 6 with a 






matinee March 7, 2 p.m.; for information, 


Fort Wayne (faculty) Senate meeting, 




call the box office, 6555. 


KTG46,noon-l:l5p.m. 




Fitness classes: GC, noon-l p.m.; for 


1 6 Honors Program: Lunch talk: "Muslims: 




information, call 6647 ore-mail 


Beliefs and Daily Lives," Avon 




tillapau(2)ipfw.edu. 


Crismore, KT G35, noon-l p.m.; for 




4 weigh to Go . . . Fun with Fiber and 


information, call 6924. 




Flex-a-Balls. 






1 1 Weigh to Go ... Do It Your Way. 


1 7 Chemistry seminar: "Sticky Hydrogens 
and Slippery Acetylenes," lUPUI 




Testing Services; for information, call 6600. 


Professor Clifford E. Dykstra, SB 476, 




6 PRAXIS (Preprofcssional Assessments 


noon; for information, call 6289. 




for Beginning Teachers), CM lobby, 






7:30a.m. 


Wednesdays at Onel "Graduation in 




9 InstitutionaJ SAT (ISAT), KT 1 20, 9 a.m. 


Banner," KT G46, 1-2 p.m.; for 
information, call 6129. 




7 An Early Music Concert: Abendmusik: 






The Music of Buxtehude, Trinity 


Dinner Series: Classic Cats presents 




Episcopal Church, 5 p.m.; for information. 


"An Evening of Elegance," The Eagle's 




call 6714. 


Nest, Columbia City, $30 per person; for 
the dinner menu and reservations, call 




8 Spring break; continues through 


Amy at 260-637-8328. 




March 14. 


Upcoming March Events 




Wellness Center: Blood pressure 


24 Annual Health Fair, WU, 9 a.m.-3 p.m. 




screening and body fat analysis, GC, 






4:45-6:45 p.m.; for information, call 6647 


25 Plogstertb Visual and Performing 




ore-mail tillapau@ipfw.edu. 


Arts Series: A Mural in the Making, 
featuring Chicago muralist Bernard 




13 Lunch with an IPFW Scientist: Robert 


Williams, WU, 9 a.m.-6 p.m. 




McCullough, "Native American 






Archaeology," Science Central, 


31 Omnibus Lecture Series: Richard 




11:30 a.m.-l p.m.; for reservations, 


Rodriguez, "The Brown Round World - 




call 260-424-2400. 


Beyond Multiculturalism and Diversity." 
WU Ballroom, 7:30 p.m. 


This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancei/or 







Page 4 The Communicator 



Opinions 



March 3, 2004 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or 

abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the 

right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the 

government for a redress of grievances. 



Editorials 



Commenting on 'No Comment' 

|*he H TW Studenl Housing has slowly but surely become a money .ind mora] pit — not just for the 
university bul for seemingly everyone who has been involved. 

Il is mil to say housing is a h.id idea, obviously il is .i good idea. Hill somehow we have discovered 

what should have been .1 positive projei 1 foi the school has .1 taint .ill over it. While investigations 
will find U there are any bi tua] illegalities, 11 iBappareni thai there has been plenty 0funeihit.1l busi- 
ness activity. 

Unfortunately, ethics ,ire only as strong, is the weakest link in any project If one in a myriad of com- 
panies is found to ha vi ■ • heated ivml er' &gt;l monies due, 01 willed I heir way out of paying earnings 



It's t 



say something when IIT'W 

tant time to give a few Ihoi 
population to consider 

Once-in-avvhile, it would 



has pushed two subcontractors off the job. 1PFW 
ontroversVj which does more harm than good. It 
intent hodv, we mil be ignorant — but university 

■ 1 its punitive benefits surely know the progression 

lue-meal, nobody with a title seems to want to say 
thai an investigation be launched, 
ling of a positive nature is noted. There is no harm 
utureof it It's naturally a bit more of a struggle to 
:hi I [owevefj it seems thai is even a more impor- 
i administration oltu lais for the students and area 



Off the Air 



lurid fashion; li 
Ihey speak In I 



for their conten 
Hopefully, Ih 



from the air. Aside from devel- 
has done very little for public 

■ publicly owned, the Federal 
torce Clear Channel to either 

ollision with the FCC and take 
.■edom of Speech and Freedom 
icast of a company where the 



1 1 'en &gt;! . -■. psn .luring the Super Howl 

■ On-flil etiquette NBC edited a scene in ER 
and Clear Channel yanked the microphone 

ied by the people, a practice of censorship is 
tiral resource for our use, and not a physical 
situation — and Limbaugh ( autions against 
rn because he likes to talk about lesbians in a 
. hi '1 t,i I , ounterparts bet arise of the politics 
.■ has been no attempt to overthrow or ques- 



id satellite outlets next for their 
the satellite signals — and they 
I 01 Showtime or The Disney 
panics providing programming 
g child pornography or another 
11 is being shown, 
jparently. They could argue that 
stworks should have to agree to 
uld not be a far jump from mak- 
sre also needing to be reigned in 
ps the government should also have a 



■spapi 



uld 1 



Word of the Week: 
Theory 



Ever since Charles Darwin fir.sl published his controversial theory in 1859, many 
creationists have dedicated their lives to proving htm wrong. The reason Darwin's 
theory is such a bane to creationist religion is that it offers an explanation for cre- 
ation that does not necessarily imply the existence of a creator. Not only this, but 
it supports itself with empirical evidence had through scientific means - some- 
thing few creation stories have ever done. For this reason, the theory of evolution 
is constantly under attack from religious sources, who point out that there is no 
conclusive evidence that proves evolution as a fact. 

Interestingly, there are several other scientific theories which are accepted as 
truth, instead of constantly attacked, by creationists Take, for example, the idea 
that the process currently going on inside the sun is hydrogen being fused into 
helium is a theor\ We cannot mnilusivelv prove this idea: we can't even get close 
to the sun, much less measure what is going on inside of it However, using basic 
facts we know about the nature of elements and space, we can make a theory 
about how exactly the sun works - and from all the things we can measure from 
the sun, we're pretty sure our theory is right. But it's not common to see a cre- 
ationist denying the idea that the sun is a huge nuclear furnace. 

Like the idea that the sun burns hydrogen into helium, there is no conclusive evi- 
dence that proves evolution is fact Thus it remains a theory; a set of rules that we 
think may apply to a certain aspect of science. There are three basic traits of a the- 
ory: it is compiled of evidence had through the scientific method, it can predict 
future events associated with the subject it addresses, and it can be falsified. 
Evolution is all of these things and never claims to be the last and final truth about 
how the universe and humanity came into existence Additionally, evolution has 
volumes of empnual evidence supporting it as a theory, including the actual wit- 
nessing of microevolution in countless laboratory experiments involving bacteria 

Still, the theory of evolution admits the possibility that it is wrong. There is no 
evidence that conclusively proves evolution is a fact. Creationists take this as rea- 
son to call evolution a worthless theorv. After all, there's no conclusive proof evo- 
lution ever happened. Isn't it a complete leap of 'faith' to ever put stock in such a 

It is entirely possible, however, to say the same for any creation story. There is 
no evidence proving that Jesus Christ was the son of God", that reincarnation actu- 
ally happens, or that the Dalai I ha ma is Buddha incarnate It is a much larger leap 
of 'faith' to believe in any creationist religion Not only are they unscientific theo- 
ries supported by little to no evidence, they often make the ridiculous claim that 
they are the one true source of all knowledge and that their creation story is the 
final truth on where and how the universe and mankind came into being. 

In reality, creationism .\n&lt;.\ evolution are as different as apples and oranges. One 
concerns that which cannot be measured or tested through scientific means: the 
other is merely a theory. Granted, this theory' is regarded as almost-truth by 
every hard science available for study here at IPFW - biology, chemistry, paleon- 
tology, geology, and astronomy, to name a few. However it remains, and probably 
always will remain, simply a theory. The only threat evolution poses to religion is 
doubt in the minds of those who once believed, but now search for something 
more substantial than a book and a building in which to put faith. Perhaps cre- 
ationists should be spending more time making their own stones more believable 
before they start attacking si lentific theory. 



The 

Communicator 

Editorial Policy 

Editorials are the opinions of The Communicator. The opinions expressed in edi- 
torials or opinion columns do not necessarily reflect the views of IPFW, 
employees or its student body. A column is solely the opinion ot the author. 

The Comminicator welcomes responses from readers. All Letters to the Editor 
and guest columns must he signed, dated and accompanied by a current, valid 
address, telephone number, and class standing/major or title. Telephone numbers 
and addresses will not be printed. All submissions made vie e-mail will be veri- 
ied by telephone or in person. 

The editorial board reserves the right to edit all submissions for length, gram' 
nar, style and clarity. 




Campus 



"How do you feel about 'The Passion of the Christ?" 



■ Robbins, 
H Freshman: I 
B like the idea. 

■ I think it 
WM looks inter- 

■ esting. It's 


■ Rogers, 
VJ| Sophomore: 
H I think it's 

91 interesting 
^B persepecrive 
"■■""""■ on a historical 
event. 1 think it's been a lit- 
tle overhyped. It's not quite 
as controversial as people 
try to make it out to be. 


like to check out. 



J 



I guess a lot of 
people think 
&gt; bad, but 
j it's nothing 
but the truth. 
There's nothing bad about 
the movie, it's all truth and 
how he suffered for us. 




Urica Winder, 
Junior: I think 



-It's 



showing peo- 
ple the reality 
of what really 
went on. For 
people who don't read the 
Bible, it gave them a chance 
to really see. 



March 3, 2004 



Opinions 



The Communicator Page 5 



Co-opted holidays give us a chance 
to get hammered, not fired 



It's now March, and soon count- 
less college students across the 
nation (including many from 
IPFW) will be on their way out of 
their respective towns to partake 
in the ritual we call "Spring 

pie you don'f know and", of 
drinking; lots and lots of drinking. 
It's true, many college students 
don't need a holiday to drink, but 
spring break isn't just any drink- 
ing event. It's a dance-the- 
Macarena-in-your-boxers, make- 
out-with-a-girl-from-Panama, eat- 
the-worm-at-the-bottom-of-the- 
bottle, and pass-out-in-the-back- 
of-a-cab level of drinking. It's the 
type of drinking that can only 
truly be done when you not only 
have the day off, but the next day 

But, in today's fast paced global 
economy where most of us work 
until we drop just to have enough 
money to pay the bills, there's no 
rime for the workforce to take an 
extended drunken vacation every 
year. A solution was needed - a 
compromise between productivity 
and hangovers. That conciliation 
has been found in what I call the 
American Drunken Holiday™. 

How do you make a drunken 
holiday? First, co-opt a holiday 
from another nation (apparently 
you get extra points if it's a reli- 
gious holiday). Then, get the alco- 
hol companies to spend a few mil- 
lion bucks slamming the airwaves 
with ads that remind you that the 
true meaning of this holiday is to 
get sloppy drunk. And, of course, 



you can't make a good drunken 
holiday by just sitting around - 
you have to get out and get faced 
yourself. 

Sure, you may be thinking that 
you don't need any expensive TV 
ads or even a particular day of the 
year to go out and get yourself 
charged with public intoxication. 
But the American Drunken 
Holiday™ has a distinct advan- 
tage over the random Wednesday 
night outing where, at 3 a.m., you 
find yourself a hundred bucks 
poorer in a chair at Showgirl III. 
With a sanctioned holiday, no one 
will complain when you stagger 
into work the next morning, 
unkempt, unshaven and reeking 
of whiskey. In fact, odds are your 
boss was out getting hammered. 

We Americans have a hearty her- 
itage of good drinking The U.S. is 
a veritable melting pot of German, 
Irish, Scottish and other bloods 
from nations where drinking is the 
national past time. With this great, 
drunken heritage, Americans need 
a helluva lot more than just a cou- 
ple drunken holidays. Therefore, 
we keep inventing i 



original Saint Paddies day 
British celebration, dating back to 
the fourth century A.D., where 
Catholics gathered to praise Saint 
Maewyn Succat, who, after being 
forced into work as a shepherd, 
escaped to France and then 
returned to his homeland of 
Ireland where he worked as a mis- 
sionary, teaching converts about 
the Holy Trinity using the symbol 
of the Irish shamrock. 

To hell with all that; give me 
some green beer! It's almost time 



for me to hobble my drunken ass 
up to the karaoke mic and blurt 
out a mangled version of "Danny 
Boy". The truth is, St. Patrick's 
day might as well be called "Green 
Beer Day," and it could be held on 
any day of the year, such as Jan. 1 
or May 5. They could, that is, if 
those days weren't already in use 
by other drunken holidays. 

My personal favorite is Cinco de 
Mayo. This "holiday" is often mis- 
taken to be the independence day 
of our southern neighbor, Mexico. 
Even though this is incorrect - it's 
actually a celebration of a crucial 
battle where an out-gunned and 
out-numbered Mexican force 
defeated the invading French in 
1862 - it really doesn't matter 
what happened on the 5 tn of May. 
All that matters is that now, in 
America, you can go out, do some 
body shots, get really messed up, 
and then drag-ass into work the 
next day looking like grim death 
without fear of repercussion. 

We've also got the Fourth of July, 
which has little to do with cele- 
brating our independence any- 
more, New Year's Eve, a two-day 
event, and, last but not least, 
Mardi Gras, which has been 
extended from a mere "fat 
Tuesday" to a morbidly obese 
weeklong orgy of booze, bush- 
beads, and breasts that, honestly, I 
still haven't recovered from. 

But is this enough? In my opin- 
ion, it'll never be enough, at least 
not to satisfy this nation. The only 
solution I can see is to continue to 
scour for unused holidays to mis- 
ippropriate until we can manage 



Hockey: What the puck? 



Once upon a time, it was the job 
of some quick-thinking person to 
entertain 20 testosterone-driven, 
beer drinking men. They took the 
20 men and handed them sticks 
and gave them one small rubber 
object to fight over. In order to 
attempt some order, they brought 
in three (usually visually 
impaired) men, who wore whis- 
tles that they blew arbitrarily. To 
make this whole scene even 
MORE entertaining, they set the 
whole ordeal onto a plane of flat 
oval ice, marked with colored 
lines and random red dots. 

Welcome to the world of hockey. 

There are few other sports that 
can rival hockey. Not only in 
area of fast-paced action, but in 
entertainment value. Where else 
can you find 250 lb grown men 
spinning like ballerinas one sec- 
ond and fighting like Rocky the 
next? 

In hockey, the same call can 
have the crowd on tn*eir feet, 
screaming for a revolt against the 
referees and the next second car- 
rying on as if each of them had 
just won the lottery and were all 
instant millionaires. 

In hockey, grown men treat a 
piece of round rubber like a frag- 
ile egg and then send it into the 
boards with a speed faster than 
most cars can drive on local roads. 

Teams skate back and forth in 
enough circles to make a ballerina 
dizzy while dodging swinging 
sticks, charging opponents, and 
the eminent wooden wall at the 
end of the rink. 

Hello, my name is Mandie, and 
I'm a hockey fan. 

Allow me to clarify quickly, I am 
a Komet hockey fan. 

They say that admittance is the 
first step to recovery, but if enjoy- 
ing a good game of hockey is a 
disease, allow me to stay infected 
the rest of my life. I may not be 
your typical hockey fan, I'm not 
only under the age of 21 (sorry, no 
beer here) but I'm also a girl. 
Don't discount me yet, though, 
because quite often I can out- 
shout, out-curse, and out-mock 
the teams and the refs with the 
best of the male fans. 



For those of you 
crowd etiquette, in many arenas 
around the country, the stands are 
packed full of very loud, very 
vocal, beer-drinking men. When 
gathered into these large groups, 
hockey fans are usually a force 
just daring to be reckoned with. 
Hockey fans can turn on the refs 
in a moment's notice. One call 
can have the audience on their 
feet, cheering and hollering 
because the refs finally put that 
"#&amp;!©" in the penalty box where 
they belong, but for the same call 
a moment later (only against the 
home team) the stands will erupt 
into a vicious mass of hatred 
because the refs don't know what 
they're talking about. 

There is a study somewhere that 
lists suicide rates by profession. 
It amazes me that hockey refs 
aren't higher up on the list than 

Now, being a girl and a hockey 
fan is a unique experience. To 
many of my unsuspecting guy 
friends, I am often discounted at 
first for being uneducated and 
well, simply, a girl. I let them 
believe that I'm a sweet, demure, 
naive girl for a little while. Then 
the game starts. Needless to say, 
there are only a few looks of shock 
at not only my enthusiasm, but 
my knowledge about the game, 
before I'm accepted into the 
world of the male hockey fans. 

As a child, I would go to the 
games with my parents and my 
older brother. I was informed of 
the importance of paying atten- 
tion to the game (this was a time 
before the safety nets at the end of 
the arenas). The fear of flying 
pucks kept me as attentive as was 
possible at that age. I learned to 
appreciate the game, and began to 
enjoy them as more than an 
evening out and cotton candy. 
The older I got, the more I really 
enjoyed and appreciated the 
games and the players on the ice. 
However, the fact of my gender 
never really seemed to be a huge 
issue until college. Matter of fact, 
I never really saw myself as a 
female hockey fan, but a hockey 
fan that happened to be female. 

Lack of money kept me away 
from the games for a while, and I 
looked for any opportunity to 
attend home games. One 



evening, I received a phone call 
from a good friend of mine and 
was offered some free tickets. I 
made some calls to my sorority 



ets were offered to me by the gen- 
tlemen of the Sigma Phi Ep^ilon 
chapter at Indiana Tech, and there 
was a large number of them 
going. So here I sat, the only 
female in a crowd of Fraternity 
men. I heard a number of little 
jokes and comments, and even 
had to defend my knowledge and 
love for hockey from one of my 
guy friends. But, soon after the 
game started, I was one of the 
gang, and my gender became of 
little importance. Some of the 
Alumni from that Fraternity 
must have questioned me a dozen 
times. They couldn't believe that 
a girl, let alone a sorority girl, was 
as much of a hockey fan as I am. 
Apparently we have a reputation 
for being "girlie" and not into 
hockey. 

Some people see hockey as noth- 
ing more than a bunch of over- 
grown boys skating around beat- 
ing each other up and hitting the 
puck around the rink. Hockey is 
so much more than that, the skill 
and talent it takes can be appreci- 
ated by any gender. It shouldn't 
matter if you're male or female 
when you sit in the stands and 
support the local team. Some 
people don't even realize the 
amount of skill and talent we 
have here in Fort Wayne. The 
Komets are currently first in the 
UHL and are the defending 
Colonel Cup Champions. We've 
got a great team here in this city 
and it's a shame that the stands 
aren't packed every home game. 
I encourage you to get out there 
and go see a game before the sea- 
son's over. Students get dis- 
counts on tickets, and there are 
always people giving away tick- 



either through b&gt; 
n the radio. There' 
i why you 



take l 



game this year, and when 
you're there, look me up. 

I'll be the girl on my feet, yelling 
at the refs, cheering on the team, 
and enjoying some fresh cotton 



The Acadamy A-boreds: 

Oscars less entertaining, more political 



Well, I waited for 

I waited to hear : 
one - make a fool of themselves I 
waited to hear someone follow in 
the grand footsteps of Michael 
Moore and say something that was 
just plain stupid at the seventy- 
sixth Academy Awards. 

Well, it only happened twice, 
when one of the men accepting the 
award for the documentary film 
"The Fog of War" connected the 
horrors of Vietnam with Iraq and 
commented, "I fear we're going 
down a rabbit hole once again." 
His remark was received with size- 
able applause by a tentative 
Hollywood audience. 

"I can't wait for his audit," 
quipped Billy Crystal afterwards. 

This was nowhere near 
acclaimed documentary filmmaker 
Michael Moore and his memorable 
acceptance speech last year: "We 
live in a time where we have a man 
sending us to war for fictitious re.i- 
sons. Whether it's the fictition of 
duct tape or fichtion of orange 
alerts we are against this war, Mr. 
Bush. Shame on you, Mr. Bush, 
shame on you. And any time you 
got the Pope and the Dixie Chicks 
against you, your time is up." 

This year, Michael Moore was 
stepped on by a giant elephant in 
the midst a battle from the movie 
"Lord of the Rings." 

Sean Penn managed to slip in a 
remark about how "there were no 
WMDs" but it was barely heard 
and rapidly spoken. 

I hoped to see at least a peace 
sign, a ribbon or something — but 
instead, nothing. 

Instead, Oscar night stayed rela- 
tively bland, sticking to old max- 
ims like: "movies, the force that 
binds us together." 

Of course— movies— that is what 
ties the fabric of America together, 
how could I have forgotten? 
Despite the fact that nearly all of 
the actors live in an isolated bubble 
far removed from the millions of 
moviegoers who fund their extrav- 
agant lifestyles, movies, and their 
drug habits. 

Oscar night proved to be, well, 
more boring than I thought it 
would be. Yet the lack of 
Hollywood activism got me think- 
ing about the Janet Jackson post- 
exposure world. Will we ever have 
our idiot celebrites back? 

One can forgive politicians for 
lies; it's practically a given in 
Washington. Celebrities, on the 
other hand, are unaccountable to 
the masses that gave them millions 
of dollars; they have no more right 
to say their political piece than you 
or I. 

"Ah ha!" my colleague yelled tri- 
umphantly, when I voiced my 
opinion on celebrities a few weeks 
ago, "so you're saying that celebri- 
ties have to give up their first- 
amendment rights just because 
people pay attention to them?" 

Celebrities are obviously entitled 



to their First- Amendment rights. 

But the public stage requires a 
higher level of intelligence and a 
greater level of rhetoric than many 
if not most celebrities possess. 
While they retain their rights for 
public speech, they lose their right 
to be a public idiot. 

Fame magnifies and highlights all 
of humanity's essential flaws; from 
drugs to violence to just plain 
greed, the special excuse granted to 
the royalty of Hollywood is baf- 
fling. Every hairstyle, every choice 
of clothing is catalogued and emu- 
lated Should this extend to politi- 
cal views as well? 

I would say no. We pay millions 
of dollars to these people to enter- 
tain us, not to preach to us. 

So what are we to make of 
celebrities-turned politicians? 

Where do the lines between poli- 
tics and Hollywood begin and 
end? When Arnold 

Schwarzenegger announced his 
candidacy on the Tonight Show it 



tics — especially when it is all 
scripted. 

Regardless of whether or not the 
celebrity is fluent in politician, 
where is the appropriate place to 
voice their opinions? On "Oprah," 
as Bono did? Is it on "Good 
Morning America," or the "Today" 
show? Perhaps. 

Is it while accepting an award at 
the Oscars or Golden Globes?' 

No. The approbation handed to 
an actor or actress recognizes supe- 
rior acting skills. While this takes 
great concentration and talent, it 
does not extend out to the political 

The Oscars are removed from the 
mainstream more than few other 
things, and it calls for a level of 
decorum and class— the abstinence 
from the ironic — that very few 
i elebrities tan recognize or under- 
stand. I don't want to hear an 
actress in a thousand dollar dress 
(or more) preach to me about 
world hunger, And surprisingly, 
this year, they didn't. I was not lec- 
tured abouf what a bad person I 
was for being an American, I was 
not shamed because I buy gaso- 
line — Hollywood, for once, stuck • 
to the script. 

The presenfer for the Best Actress 
award reminded me of the only 
good social commentary 1 have 



strange time," he said. "And, you 
know, my experiences of making 
this film made me very aware of 
the sadness and the dehumani/.a- 
tion of people at times of war ... 
And whatever you believe in, if it's 
God or Allah, may he watch over 
you and let's pray for a peaceful 
and swift resolution. Thank you." 
Hollywood managed to rise to 



the i 



. No t 



ised than yours truly. Let's see 
how long decorum can last in the 
Janet Jackson post-exposure world. 



fetters to th e |-Hj di tor 



Theory of evolution 

makes no claims 

about God 



To the Editor: 

In response to Joe Mann's (Letter 
to the Editor) on creationism, his 
statement, "Rather than believing 
that a Creator designed the 
Universe, the evolutionist believes 
the universe and all contained 

Ethin came from nothing." That 
tement is a lie. It is a lie told by 
neone who would so narrowly 
define what it means to believe in 
God and be a Christian, as to 
exclude anyone from the Body of 
Christ who does not accept his par- 
ticular interpretation of Scripture. 
Mann creates the completely false 



dichotomy that you must either 
believe in God or evolution, but 
not both. I am a church going 
Christian who believes evolution is 
currently the best scientific model 
to explain the physical mecha- 
nisms of our origins. My pastor has 
no problem with evolution either. 
In fact, many entire denominations 
have no problem with evolution. 
Evolutionary Theory makes no 
statements about the existence oi 
non-existence of God, or God's 
involvement in ihe world. Of 
course, Mann would say all of us 
must not be "real" Christians, 
because that would contradict his 
narrow absolute truth, and so a.t\y 
contradictory evidence must some- 
how be found invalid. 



Page 6 The Communicator 



arts and entertainment- 



March 3, 2004 




\u 



BESTPICTURE 

The Lord of the Rings: 
Return of the King 




lulling BesI Director 
II wins tics them for 
:anic and Ben Hur. 
i, daughter of 
ranch Ford Coppola, 
tor her film "Lost in 
Jill Murray. 
mated lor BesI Ai tor, 
eleran comedian, but 
■ his performance in 
v I lupp was alsonom- 



spraying Binaca into his mouth before 
announcing the winner for Best Actress. 
Rene Zellweger won Best Supporting 
Actress for her role in "Cold Mountain." 

The event, which was hosted by Billy 
Crystal, was well over three and half boors. 
Crystal did an excellent job hosting, of 
course, being his eight syear in the hntseat 

In the recently added Hcsl Animated 
Feature category, "Finding Nemo" took 



i the h 



Just like last year when Best 
Documentary winner Michael Moore 
preached about politics, this years winner 
Errol Morris also spoke hi-, mind about the 
war in Iraq. The "Fog and War" director 
compared this military crisis of today to the 
Vietnam war. 

Blake Edwards, director of classics 
such as "Breakfast at Tiffany's" and the 
"Pink Panther" films, received an honorary 
Lifetime Achievement award from Jim 
Carrey. The presentation was humorous, 
having Edwards shoot past Carrey on a 
" -----, then 



BESTDIRECTOR 

Peter Jackson 




BESTACTOR 

Sean Penn 



o 



tfj| 



BESTACTRESS 

Charlize Theron 







BESTSUPPORTINGACTOR 

Tim Robbins 




BESTSUPPORTINGACTRESS 

Rene Zellweger 




Gibson's 'Passion' difficult to judge 



e this n 



/ill be ri 



f.Thisv 



tbe 



Passion ot the t 
than that. For C 
and disturbing 

I think the one thing that 



Mainly for the fact that this is 
my past article 1 said thai this 
till true. Movies are just cellu- 
sound and color, rolled into a 
algorithm. That is all The 
novie. But inherently it is more 
ho are religious, it is a graphic 



Whei 

and a booming voice surely did not say,'"That's my boy!* 
Towards the middle of this movie we find out why 
this movie has an R rating: the scourging scene. There is a 
fine line between dramatizing a subject and "telling it 
how it was." Everything that history tells us, the whips 
they used had metal shards tied to the end of it. Now, if 
modem physics principles serve me right, after numerous 
calculations, taking into account 1 the length of ropes, 
strength of the soldiers and what have you, I came to the 
conclusion Ih.it for Christ to be whipped by those stone- 
age tools of torture, would definitely takeoff skin and the 
skin below them and the bone possibly. This is how 
Gibson represented it, bloody, brutal and sadistic The 



Roman soldiei- took 



ffering is He was human. He 

capable ot bipedal locomotion 
thr.iptilogu.il folks] and had the 
js Icsns Christ WAS human, and 



i thise 



, laughing and what 



connecting Chris! to Hi; 
was bom of w 
(walking for yoi 
same red blood i 
they depict that : 

From the get-go, when Christ is being tempted by 
Satan in the garden of Celhsemane, thev showed him 
sick, sweaty and crouching on all fours asking Cod to 
give Him strength. There was no pristine mist or heaven- 
ly light. It was dart., hot and lonely Gibson gives this sort 
ofa 'film-noir" feel in the cinematography. Then when the 
Roman soldiers come upon him. arrest Him and Peter 
e is no light showing a miracle when 
is what I like I don't like my religion 



slices oil o 




'he 9assion of t be Christ 



UUvc Motion 'Pictures; 12:30, 2:15, 
3:30, 6:30, 9:30, 10:30 



The scourging scene, of all of them, affected me the 
most. I think the combination of seeing the act and hear- 
ing how bad it was really got into my head Anytime the 
whip cracked and the blood flew, Tflinched, I twitched 
and 1 am proud to say it, it brought me to tears. Can you 
imagine having your skin ripped off your torso, then 
being dragged into the dirt? 

1 am not going to talk about the crucifixion. I honest- 
ly feel that it is something that can't be explained. It needs 
to speak for itself. 

In all, this movie only can speak for itself. There are 
NO words anyone can say that I think can express the 
sheer magnitude of this movie. After all, I have said 
numerous times it is just a movie, but for some it's not. 
For mvselt.it is the grounding of my religion. The story of 
Christ dying on the cross, the e - *— 



. It shows us thai Christ was human, and His i 
were entirely His own. He laid down his life for us, and it 
was the most human action anyone could have ever done. 
I am not trying to persuade anyone. "Passion" can 
only be reasoned u ith and explained through the eyes of 
the watcher. It is different lor everyone, therefore every- 
one must find their own meaning within it. 




March 3, 2004 



A d &amp;.E 

■ arts and entertainment- 



The Communicator Page 7 



BLUE 




up front (s 



In the movie industry, i 

place to see so-called "coming of age" 
films. Every other movie with some sort 
of a message is considered coming of 
age. 

But in the music industry, it is rare 
to find an album described as coming of 
age. And it is even harder to find one 
that truly fits the description. 
"Paperbacks &amp; Photographs," the debut 
release of Blue Background is all of that 

Simply put, Blue Background are 
the local kids who made good, just not 
locally. A few years back, three of the 
four were students at North Side High 
School. And even then, they were doing 
their own music their own way. 

After high school, Sarah Mick 
(vocals and guitar), Maggie Tielker (key- 
board and vocals) and Chris Christen 
(bass guitar) moved off to Wisconsin, 
where they were joined by Carlyle 
Nowak (drums). 

Yet, that was then and "Paperbacks 
&amp; Photographs" is now. To say that this 
disc shows the group's maturity would 
be a supreme understatement. A person 
can find true emotion in every lyric that 
comes out of the mouths of Mick and 
Tielker. The lyrics are a true reflection of 
that growing up that we all do in our 
conversion from youth to adult. 

Yet, the lyrics are not dull. They are 
not recycled sentiments that most emo- 
tionally charged modern rock bands 
regurgitate. "Paperbacks &amp; 

Photographs" is real, one-hundred per- 
cent genuine. 

The lead track "Enough" is the per- 
fect way to lead into the disc. While 
most would think that the lead line of 
the song, "this is an ending," would fit 



better to lead the closing track, it per- 
fectly details the breaking away from 
the youthful lifestyle. Within the first 
few seconds of the album, the tone is 
fully set, and it is impactful. 

Another track that works as a per- 
fect transition is the title track 
"Paperbacks &amp; Photographs." The song 
addresses anger in so many ways. As 
any young person who is transitioning 
to adulthood knows, anger is part of life. 
Anger fuels that transition. It makes it 
easier in some aspects and can teach. 
Blue Background teaches anger well 
through their words and powerful gui- 



found music that they write and per- 
form on their own, they should be 
equally proud of the cover of "Ain't No 



lyrics and vie for a unique instrumental 
sound. And the instrumental impression 
that Blue Background makes on this 
track showcases just how talented they 

The wrap up song also has a strong 
impact. "The Downfall" impresses me by 
covering the overall approach. Granted, 
the overall work is good on the album, 
but this is easily the best track to show 
that ability. 

The impacting lyrics (i.e. "I spent 
my life waiting for the downfall,") and 
the powerful percussion and guitar 
work are superb on "The Downfall." 

I fear for the competition when 
Blue Background hits the national main- 
stream world. Because, if "Paperbacks &amp; 
Photographs" is any indication at all, 



Cast performances shine in George 
Bernard Shaw's 'Arms and the Man' 



have received in many weeks. 

The classic play, written by George Bernard 
Shaw, is set in a very different setting - a man- 
in Bulgaria in the midst of the Serb 



in pcrlorm 
oi the play 
Petkott") t 



e this point in a poignant and 
upporting cast per- 
ability to giow and 
&gt;, they still turned 



i for her performance 



the mother of Raina who e 

nukaii.^rv^Ii'oi'UsL'KnZ^VMu'l'.ni's^.i'nVe '"'^^th her silent taual evasions than 
consent is „urpr.s,nn sh,,s - comments on the P u y n « lu '' l,, ' ,ll * , 1 u ' Ul " '' l "^ , l!, ' vl " s ' M *V ot 
ven ™ etl " t,|,) committed several verbal gatles during 



the performance, his performance 



dupliciious nature of love and valor apply c 

today, though the play was written in the nine- 

leenlh &gt;,,!„„ II,;. pl.H.v,,,;!,! put hi- poink-J ^'^ ";"&lt;&gt;'&gt; &gt;"'" ' «' &gt; *;•""•"&gt; - &gt;'h..r.H lor ..I 

..h-.-rva ,. in Iho oui-o ,!i hi'nu.r. ami Inn- ' ""Ci P l.,v.Ht &gt;l»' l'» I ..I Ihe del, .&lt;„ , -oll-orm!,. 

made Ihe ellerK,. I ihetmth^v.a, ,,„.,,■ marked d.a.l .e.va.,1 m Ihe el ...1 h,.m,a„,|d w,lh d, B - 

Yetevon Ihouoh Arm, ami Iho Man" ,s ., "'" ' ["&lt;■ "'"*' " »» A ,,»,l ™| wasrim 

comedy, it is a d.ll. ,enl k.nd „l .omedv Ih.in -^ . hv " V , '"''. '" N'ook, P l.„vd by |„hn 

what is normally soon in Iho mod,., lod.rv Work V". P V " i 

all of the humor is a philosophical type that ^° l! %-. 4 , .. c .1 &lt;■ 

ro.|„iros ., gro.ri deal ,.l ihouehl lo pn.ro ,d „ T u ' *'■' '" ''" '" "',"' pr-rlorm.mrvs w.,s 

vmder.lami. I his, hnilolv . pl.ir oho, ,o "''" ^.'&gt;'"']&lt; '""' •'"'■■"""■•I """K" "'"•" 

„,oslp,v.,llonl ,oporl,,„„.,nrr- losl Ihor »"»''"" nol he devoir,! ,o |,.,rl,r .liars „&lt; Iho, 

ho,,, no l„sl .„ Iho sumoul,,,! a.d.au d,.,l, w ,o **''«'' """•'" ',"' "' ls ""'"'; " ''lo..rlv .v.is; 

rhor,,slr,,nn,,l,ol,„ns,ohl,;.,..sl„.snnl.„,ohs, P"'l^--'""-&lt;l j\&lt;^&gt;-"- Verm los,„„or Mark; 

,nslo.,d Iho p,or,s,„„ and limine, , ion- k "^." .'" ■"''' ""I,"'*' Cre " S *° M be "&gt;™". 

n - „„. „ r i u . .1 .i i mended lor their etloris ■ 

flippant remarks « what earns the great laughs whj]i . sinmJ , iu( ^^ did _ 



from the audience. 



t play f 



j the 



driving tune behind the production, it i 

tial for the actors to have good liming not only ■ , 

l„rll„,r„unl,nos.br,l while inloraotmg ,,,.!,. ho "»'» " n,„s, bo ,,ddo,l h.,1 1, „,,,,. hehlm,; . 

.. sequence deseroos monhun heeanse I„ bo qu, o. 



dm lion progressed smoothly (.111 achievement ii 



both 
of these instances. In a few places the lines were 
lost in laughter or merely went over the heads of 
the audience members, though this can 
expected in any performance. 

Overall cast performance was admirable 



honest, i 

there were few props, there was an attention to'' 

detail; the crew even went to the lengths to pro-!' 
l"' vide a hookah tor Major IVtkolf, as it was written,! 



opening n.ghl, osponall, goon the eslrrn.eh / 

wordy nature ,,. bh.iw s di.ilnguo Mower ei. , , J , , , „„.„ ;, ,,,.,, &gt;,„„„„„, „, ; 

here were sovo,., los in ,, f ,.,,1 ... lor*. Ion H ; 

lines, and while tho&gt; were briel. Ihol did add up ,., rl.mily lo see' 

M.mewhat hv tin- .-nd ol the pertormaiue I his, h ,,», ''i , ,- , la 

u I o .I., „.i.„ h n,„, i.-.,.a.-i ;., this pla\ dnnng this week (Man h 4,S,6at 8 p.m.; 

March 7 at 2 p.m.: High Shoo] Matinee - March &gt; 
4 at 10:30 p.m.). The script could not be better, the 
dedication in the actors and crew is evident in , 
the excellent performance, and at only five dol- [ 
lars for a student ticket, "Arms and the Man" is 
one of the very best entertainment deals so far j 



Several of the actors stood out in tl 

aghi.po-s,„ V as;,i,o,cki..-.„he,;,.sBi.,„,sj,i.: :l ;; ^a,;;. ,;,;.., ,'■;.'; 



?tently strong perfo 
world-weary Swiss, and Lori Leigh Piatt (as 
Raina) and Jacob Stackhouse (as Sergius) showed 
a great breadth of acting ability as they moved 



IPFW 



DDN'T MISS PUT! 
3PACE IS STILL AVAILABLE BUT GOING FAST! 




the YICW standard 
in student living 



amenities 



' Individual Housing Agreements 
1 Furnished Bedroom 
1 Furnished Living Room 
1 Fully Equipped Kitchen 

• Dining Area with Chairs 

1 High-speed Internet and Cable Television Service 

' Community Center 

' Social Lounge with Big Screen Television 

• 24-Hour Laundry Facilities 
1 Fitness Center 

' Basketball Sport Court 

■ Computer Learning Center/Cyber Lounge 

• On-site Community Assistant Staff 

• On-site Management and Maintenance 

1 Housing for IPFW Students including Allen 
County Residents 

OPENING FALL 2004! 



IPFW 
Student 
Housing 



INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

Kettler Hall G98F • 2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, Indiana 46805 
www.IPFWstudenthousing.com • email: info@IPFWstudenthousing.com 

PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY AMERICAN CAMPUS COMMUNITIES 



HDUSING FDR IPFW 



Page 8 The Communicator 



Features 



March 3, 2004 



Revving up for Spring Break 



By Amie Sorka 



The Co: 



Every year, students al IPI-W 
eagerly await a certain week in 
March where they are tree of their 
scholarly duties. Thai week, known 
as Spring Break, is a time when hun- 
dreds choose to travel to various 
destinations, while many more con- 
tinue on living their daily lives in 
Port Wayne. 

Sara Shepherd, a second year 
theater major, and Laura Vought, a 
third year nursing major, are two ol 
many students from IPFW who are 
going out of town (or spring break, 
They are heading down to Dayton.. 
Beach, Florida, where Vought has 
been, bul Shepherd has not, 

Vought said that the thing; 




rn.my tips Bl thi 
'W.Colle^.'tr 

One of the mo 
ispopen outside Have tin- post 

picket! up regularly. 



shee 



Day tor 
things 



!,:■.„■ , 



pea , 1PFW sludenls Sara Sheperd and Laura Vought display a map of 
h and the Florida. The two are amongh dozens of area students migrating south 



next week, as the 



sity enjoys Spring Break '04. 



Fhe othei things the two ■ire t.iking with them 

.in' bathing SUltS, s.md.ils, sunglasses and shorts. 

Shepherd is pretty excited .ihout going down to 
I &gt;.i yh in.i sime slu- e. jnsl going to h.ing out ,\\u\ ■ hill 
While Vought wants In go down lo get .mother tattoo, 
maybe a four-leaf clover. sen 

When asked about whal is the best part of Wa; 
spring break. Voughl deil.ires il is bring away from spri 
school, hanging out with the people von want to hang miv 



nighl. who describes Shephrnl ,idds the weather, gelling away and 

on place " being burnl out are also a reason for going fo spring 

lace aboul a couple of break. 

&gt;n&lt;' thing she remem- Another Ihing; no parents Shepherd admits that it 

a did i\as ml)' on .i was going lo be the fir^t spring break without her par- 

in the Ocean Ih.it was Vought intervened thai being safe about notset- 

oi going in hung any- hog your beverages down, listening to what your par- 
/ilh her in case il gets enls have to say and not going anywhere alone are 
important rules to remember while on vacation. 

The one thing ih.it Shepherd is not going to look 
forward to is coming back home. 

"It's going to be the worst," she declares. 
And, while those two, among others, are enjoy- 
in,.', Florida and other locations, Qhyrstal Ackers, a 
senior psvi hologv major, is staying here in Fort 
nd that she could not go anywhere for 
-nue she works full time and she just 



.uh.i 



and 



ting, Acker says she is going 



Practice Safe Rest 

ORLANEX &gt; i la (COLLEGIATE PRESSWIREjIf you want to avoid tc 
ing all the bathrooms during Spring Break, then eat yogurt every day for 



The culhi 



ii- will strengthen ihe digestive system and 
: ■ mi i - Revenge This is |ust one of the 
■ to Student Travel by the safety experts at 

■ r ■■ tii.. more tips fur Spring Breakers: 

. ..■:, ,,.r,-,i, i- ihe hnilil up ut ' iiuiil nihl 
and newspaper stop delivery, or get it 



If you are taking a road trip, check out all belts, hoses fluid levels, spare (; 



Remembei lo bring \jow health 



c lumping in lo hijack the c 



card and allergy bracelet*. 



Let your family and trusted friends know when you arc leaving, 
i/ei/ II get bin k ami U/nr you arc traveling. 

If you arc trawling b\i bus. mil or nil, don't bring magazine* until your 

• and address. Tear off you) address label. You do not want people lo know 

that you arc away from borne and where you live. 

Don't have your name ami ad.hr?.:-, Iiigldy visible an your luggage. 

Be aware of pickpockets who prey on people in crowds. They get close and 
bump into you without you notu ing. Pickpockets also work in groups. One Will 
distract while the other slips away with your goodies. 

In public bathrooms, do not hang your purs,- on the hook on the back of the 
partition door A thief can reach over the door to take your purse. Tltey watch 
you i foot position mid wait until they -rr mm turn away By the time you notice, 

ire literally c, night wht. youi pants down. 

If you stop at a restaurant. ba\ oi cafe ami set \nmi bag down , put your foot 
through the strap That way it won t be taken without i/t&gt;u knowing. Also, you'll 
remember to take it with you when you trip over it as you leave. 
or more tips, check out www.CollegeSafe.com. 



With housing comes potential roommate nightmares 



ORLANDO, I l-i ~(C01 I EGIATE PRESS- 

W!RE)--Ynu are probably tilling out Ihe 
forms for student housing soon 

What can you expeel from v/oul nexl 
college roommate' Will you wake up with 
blue hair or freshly baked i oi ikies? Will your 
roommate be your best friend or your worst 

That depends on how you fill out the 
college roommate quiz and how von get 
along with your new roomie. 
CollegeSale.om introdmesa tree guide on 
surviving college roommates available at 
www.CnllegeSafecom/roomiehtm 

You can I ChOOse /Our parents and yon 
can't choose your brothers or sisters, but you 
can take steps to get good roommates. When 
you re filling out the roommate quiz, be hxwv 
est and maybe even exaggerate a bit on the 
things lli.il are important lo you. Be voursell 
Forget aboul trying to act cool, the people 
reading it couldn't care less. For example il 
you are a person that likes order and gels 
stressed when things are messy, thensav lh.it 
you are a neat freak and don't they dare 
match you with a slob or you'll go postal. 



i in the other hand, it you use your floor 
i you. l.-niiidry basket and wash Ihe dishes 
one at a lime from the big pile in the sink 
only when you need one, then don't put 
down tli.it cleanliness is important to you. 

You might be hoping to get paired up 
with someone who is ,i real neat freak so that 
they will do all the cleaning and you can 
slide by without doing much, but this will 
onlj cause problems in the long run. You are 
likely to find the underwear that you left in 

our bed. Or you'll 



i toilet brush and then put it back 



* Spit in their food or emptied used 
condoms in their food. 

* Gone to the bathroom 
or their body spray (it gives 

Fau de toilette"). 

' Cut their hair while they 
ing. 



* Set up web cams and hidden camera 
to spy on their roommate's intimate 
moments. 

their cologne * Used their email accounts to send 

v meaning to harassing emails to teachers. 






,Hh a 






s kind enough lo give you while you v 



sleeping It is i 


&gt;t a good idea to upset some- 


one that has a 


cess to the food you eat and 


that can come 


n and do what they yvant to 


you while you 


ire sleeping. 


Roommal 


*s in the past have done some 


cruel and vicio 


is things. If you want to sleep 


well at night, 


try to get along with your 


Some o| 


the things roommates have 


done include: 




* Used th 


ir roommate s toothbrush as 




• currently hiring photographers. no p 
• Stop by Waib 21!&gt; ior more information 



Enjoy a double order of 
fajiias (enough for two) 
for jus* (111 And 10 oz 
original Top Shelf and 
Caribbean Margariias are 
only (2* 



Two Great Deals! 



Baby Back 

'N Brew 

Wednesdays 



nnnsEEm 




mmmm 

Call for group discounts 




A full rack of Chilis® 
famous, double-basied 
Baby Back Ribs is jus* 

♦9991 And 10 oz. 

Domestic Drafts are 

jus* tl** 




Fori Wayne ■ 317 E Coliseum Blvd. ■ 260-471-2979 

tUufi be ai leaof 21 yeara of afte +o consume alcohol "Offer valid everv Hondav 



Chiropractic... 



The Choice For Me 



.r student from Medford, NJ. 
from Ithaca College with a Bachelor's Degree in Exercise Physiology 
itrating in Cardiac Rehabilitation 
inly thing that has ever captured my attention was studying the 



I could truly help people' 



a Doctor of Chiropractic 



ie chiropractic coltegi 
3 perfect Ic 



id Logan, Jason visited 
jsmthe United States. 
safe, residential area. 

ry friendly and helpful and the 
faculty are excellent." 
Logan College offers students an incredib 
mvironment blending a rigorous chiropractic progre 
iiverse and active student population If you are looking 
personal 







professional success and income 
commensurate with your position as a 
Doctor of Chiropractic, contact Logan College 
Chiropractic today and explore 



A 




March 3, 2004 



Features 



The Communicator Page 9 



UGA spends Fridays in fantasy worlds 



Master for a campaign for 

"It's like going to the movies 
but you're a part of the movie; 
you're a character in the movie. You 
sit down and figure it all out and 
create the script as you go," Sharp 

The UGA doesn't only offer 
role playing games as a format 
though. They also have a video 
game night when anyone can bring 
their own systems, controllers, and 
games. Along with independent 
play, they also offer tournaments 
featuring games like Madden 2003 
and 2004 football, and Bomberman. 

With games like these, UGA 
hopes to provide participants with a 
chance to build teamwork skills, 
social skills, improve concentration, 
as well as listening and problem- 
solving skills all while having a 
good time and meeting new people. 
The tournaments also have cash prizes 
a nominal $5 entry fee. 

Along with these video game 
UGA also sponsors tournaments. On the lasl Friday of 
every month, gamers are welcome to register and play 
n theChasem Tournament. Although they sometimes 




Photo by Scott M. Urn-son 
UGA Chris Ash, left, 1PFW freshman Rich Straub and Nate Ward play 
a card-based game Friday at Walb Student Union. 



ailable with 



.i gu.irdi.in to allow participation. This protects the 
UGA since some games may contain suggestive situa- 
tions ,ind violence, as well as videogames with ratings 
of Mature. 

Taking part in a gaming session is a good way to 

meet people and find out what Dungeons and 

charge a $5 entry fee for play, they offer cash prizes i ' ' ^ i 



thought to be a cult game, as well as 
some sort of satanic ritual, but gamers are attempting 
to get away from that image. 

'It's just a game. We're trying to promote the n 



depending on the turnout. 

Gamers who want to create their own campaign 
are also welcome to attend any meeting. To create a 
campaign as a DM however, a description of the cam- 

,, , ., , , ■ , . .,,, , , violent sidr ol g.iinin!;, and tin' pos, ri\ V side, the posi 

paign nuisl It described and lollow I..H....A and I I'M... A .. ___, „, . 6 , . a ,_ . " , ,,__._,___ 

rules. Since they are not pay-for-play, donations 
not mandatory, but are welo 
UGA as a group. 

Currently the UGA consists of approximately 30 
members, but they are hoping to grow larger in the 
future. Being an IPFW student is not a requirement to 
join. The UGA has c[uite a few students from local high 

schools who are not only inieiv-led in tin gaining, but , , ' "'^ t " B " feca Ulc llllllu °' lu 
,, —' , lc: , . think about the ebon."- to make 



gods. We're trying to get away from that stereo- 
and'on'lyb'me'liUhe type,' Brandt said. 

J In reality the game is a way to get together with 

friends, meet new people, and get a new viewpoint on 
life. The situations and arrangements provided by the 
Dungeon Master can rival or go well beyond the 
everyday experiences. 

This engages the mind and causes players to 

mple, "If I 

open this door will a monster jump out, or will I be 

fine?" The Dungeon Masters must also be prepared if 

player pulls something that is totally unexpected. 



the campus as well. To become an official member, 
attend at least six meetings, or six months of gaming 
with excused absences. This entitles members to vot- 
ing rights during me.liri:',-. and oilier privileges. 

i jj.. . o . ,n.o,o i 1 bis entails nkuet- lobe on tin.' ball with Ibmking and 

In addition to the meetings at ll'FVV, there are also *\. } , . . , ., 6 

.. . , . r . .,, , , ,-,- reasoning skills and helps de\ elop them i! m\ ■ -- w \ 

/ other traminii -.p.'i- hi i'n \\.i\:ii .-. I n. h . ■ :,-: ' r . 



many other gaming spots in Fort Wayne which oiler 
open gaming. Gamers can head to the Phoenix Rising 
store or More Than Games on Wednesday: 
Thursdays, and Fridays for some competition. 
are also some Saturday campaigns at those locations 
as well: 

The current members of the UGA enjoy gaming 
and being able to get together. 

"We're just a big group of friends. It's just a real 
creative way to spend a Friday night playing games. 
Brandt said. 

She said they are always looking for new 
Dungeon Masters and Came Masters to run new cam- 
paigns and bring in more people. Having only a few 
DMs makes running sessions hard. When more people 
come, they need people to take the initiative and try 
their hand at becoming a DM. 

Coming up in the summer, the UGA is sponsor- 
ing UGA-Con Aug. 21-22. This will be a convention 
featuring gaming sessions and vendor booths for 
gamers to explore stores and their products. It was ini- 
tially scheduled for May, but was moved back due to 
conflicts with finals and the end of the school year. 

The UGA has very few restrictions 



Mike Keelner believes that along with these 
skills, players are also actively involved with each 
Th J "' otner socially. Interacting in person, as well as in char- 
acter, helps to develop interpersonal skills needed 
through life. 

Another good skill players build upon is their 
math ability To play, players use dice to roll for vari- 
ous attributes like hit points, charisma, and skills 
needed for game play. They also have to use dice for 
battling or attempting certain feats their character 
might not be ready or able to do. Playing these games 
iI-m h.ljv, hiuld imagination and concentration, UGA 
members say. Being such a fast-paced game, it 
requires players to be on their ready for any event and 
be able to understand their situations. 

If interested in joining or checking out the UGA, 
they have game sessions every Friday night on the 
IPFW campus in the Science Building or Walb Student 
Union. Video Game sessions are held every other 
Fridaj night, and other gaming sessions are held off- 
campus at Phoenix Rising and More Than Games in 
Fori Wayne. The current Dungeon Masters for the 



UGA include Sharp, Orb3; Keefner, Vetri 
bers, though members must follow the Constitution . ' ° , , "' 



February 25. 2004 



I 



III 



m3 






m 



information check out the web page at 
groups.msn.com/ugagames or contact Brandt 




nmmiia 


* L* SEARCH 


Surf and Turf 


NQRRPSGJ P K O Z Y X X IMU 1 S 


1 JVU lUOZCPPWYJKPRJQO 


FZP8TKKHB2LBYJBOAAH 1 


MUUMMNOA 1 AJKPYURPBAL 


IQLZ IWPOHF ISOAWTTNRJ 


GCFMDROJVLUAHTSEBUBJ 


GCNENVHLLWZNBLPRLKBO 


FMRSHGBSEDOMETFHGRLO 


EGKJXEYNKNYSYJYOQANT 


ECHRHMKTGJSSRPMUTGES 


BBLREYFISULATTGSINXC 


XBAAATMBM 1 TCWEGEDAFA 


QFDBMTSMAWRORWAESCSl 


R 1 NGESQBSCJLMIRKSRUL 


PSHLTCOWOSUUOLWDFAOO 


EH 1 FXWQATLCMO IQGCBMP 


X F S G UWW JGIQISANYZADS 


TRRTDWPPJRNLSPWGFVCZ 


OZLYTLF 1 IONUVUMWSSOO 


MHLLGDOOFAESMYDTNLEV 


Beef Fbh Seafood 


Chowder Lobster Shrimp 


Clams Mussels Sirloin 


Crab Porterhouse Steak 


Fitet Mignou Scallops Tenderloin 




You're Never 
Lived or Worked Like This! 



IPFW Student Housing, the new premier housing choice for IPFW 
students, is looking for Resident Assistants. As a Resident Assistant, you will help 
make IPFW Student Housing a great place to live through outreach with 
students, resident programming, leadership and customer service support. 
Qualifications Include: 

• Must be a full-time IPFW student in good standing 

• Must have and maintain a 2.S GPA or higher 

• Must have strong leadership and communication skills 

• Must attend one RA Informational Session to apply 

For more information and to apply, please stop by the 
housing office located in Kettler Hall. 

2101 East Coliseum Blvd. * Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

(260)481-4180 

www.IPFWstudenthousing.com 



OPENING AUGUST 2004! 




Page 10 The Communicator 



Sports 



March 3, 2004 



Lost fight on Senior Night 



Seniors combine 
for 27 points in 
Mastodon loss 

By Staff and News Services 



When they are at the Memi 

m, the IPFW Mastodons 1 

played even with just about every 



has stepped on the floor. Unfortunately th: 
squad has found it lough to win many of 
tlmsL' tlosc games. 

The season finale against IUPUI on 
Monday, March 1 proved to be another nail 
biter, but in the end, the Jaguars had just 
enough to hold of/ the Mastodons, 68-65. 



eight po 

rsMl in 



the net. It gave IUPUI a 34-31 

The second half saw 
the Jaguars (19-10) opened up 
lead with jusl under four mir 
jumper by Matt Crenshaw. 

The Mastodons clawed back to one, 
on a triple from freshman guard Beau 
li.Hier, bill .1 pair of Iree throws Irom Oilrll 
Hradley with seven sec onds lell gave IUPUI 
the victory. 

Trie Mastodons had a chance to 
-end llie game into overtime, but a three- 
pointer bv Keion Henderson bit the right 
side ill the rim ami It*!! lo Ihe ground at (he 
buzzer. 

On senior night, it was Henderon 
sharing team-high honors with 15 points. 

Junior center David Simon also 
tossed in |5 poinls while hauling down Id 
rebounds. Simon finished a stellar 2(1111-111 
season with 14 double-doubles. 

Senior forward Jim Kessenich and 
Bauer each added 12. 

Bradley was game-high for the Jags 
u ilh 2H points, ten coming from the charity 
stripe I h.il was Ihe biggest deficiency lor 
IPFW on Ihe night. They shot only 50-per- 
cent at file line, while IUPUI shot 'Hl-perccnt 

Bolh teams shot just 37 percent from 
The M " * 

rs and 

Jaguars bit six of 20. 

At the conclusion of Ihe j. 
Mastodon coach Doug Noll took the r 
phone and thanked the fans, students 




IPFW seniors Jim Kessenich (front) and Keion Henderson (back) look or 
as an IUPUI three-poinler sinks through the basket. The Mastodons lost i 
very competetive game, f " ' 
will run .ffull men's sea 



Wayne community and his players and 

coaches lor their efforts and dedication lo 
the program and what he called a "tough" 

Seniors Jim Kessenich and Keion 

I lenderson echoed Noll's words and tearful- 
ly reflected on their college basketball 

Kessenich made it through most of 

his speech before bis emotions gut the best 
of him. As he began to speak about his 



teammates, his voice buckled. 

Henderson was just a few seconds 

into Ins speech before lie paused to collect 
himself. 

Both players already have full-time 
jobs hned up lor Ihem in the community. 
Kessenich will use his engineering degree to 
design looking equipment and machinery, 



IPFW takes 
5th place at 
tournament 

By IPFW News Si 



Ryan Steinbach scored the game- 
winning run in the ninth inning Sunday as 
the IPFW Mastodons defeated the Valparaiso 
Crusaders 4-3 in the til lb-place game of the 
2004 Governor's Cup at Charles H. Braun 
Stadium. 

With the score knotted 3-3 in the bot- 
tom of the ninlh, IPFW loaded the bases. 
With one out, Maslodon center fielder Ryan 
Keena slapped ihe ball to second base. Valpo 
second baseman Eddie Hannan threw to 
shortstop Kevin Kutansky, who was unable 
to complete the double play in time. 

Steinbach 

~~ scored from 

Baseball third. 

Roundup Valparaiso 

took the early 

lead, scoring 
two runs in the fourth inning on a single by 
first baseman Colin Reynolds. IPFW scored 
one run in the bottom of the fourth and took 
a 3-2 lead in the sixth inning before VU tied 
the game in the seventh inning. 

Doug McDonald got the win for 
IPFW, which improved to 1-5 on the year, 
while Mall Oillkin took the loss for Valpo, 



The Mastodons dropped a 5-3 deci- 



The Bulldogs gave a run back in the 

second. Designated hitter Eric Lambert 
walked, reached third on an error, and then 
scored on a double-play, making it 2-1 Butler. 

The Mastodons would take a 3-2 
lead in the third inning as Brandon 
Armstrong singled lo center field scoring 
Matt I lagedorn and Ryan Keena. 

Butler regained the lead for good in 
the fourth inning with two runs. They also 
sn insurance run in the seventh. 

Starter David Zachary (0-2) took the 
for IPFW. Zachary went 4 1/3 innings 
giving up four runs (2 earned) on five hits, 
while striking out three. 

Indiana State dropped the Dons 5-0 
the opening game of the tournament. 

The Sycamores spoiled a great out- 
ing b) IPFW senior right-hander Jason 
Horvath. Horvath went six innings, giving 
up only one run. on six hits. He had nice, . 
command of his stuff, gelling 11 ground ball 
to go along with two strikeouts. 

He gave up his only run in the 
fourth. 



'Dons pick up 
two MIVA wins 



turned back the attack of the 
Ramblers in five tough sets, 3-2. 

The Mastodons won by the 
scores of 30-26, 23-30. 26-30, 30-25, 
and 15-12. 

After the Ramblers took a 
2-1 lead, senior outside hitter Matt 
Zbyszewski put IPFW on his back 
and led l hem to wins in the fouth 
and fifth. Zbyszewski finished the 
night 



digs for 34.5 points. 

As usual, the MIVA's lead- 
ing block wall of Serdar Sikca, Mike 
Daiga, and Dennis Santiago did the 

t'ob. Sikca had one solo and ten 
)lock assists. He also had nine kills 
Daiga and Santiago each 
registered four block assists, as did 
outside hitter Mitch Dreisbach, who 
put down nine balls for the second 
night in a row. Santiago recorded 58 

Senior libera Isaac White 
got double-figure dig numbers for 
the second night with 11, and fresh- 
man Cristiano Moriera also 
chipped in 11 kills. 

Loyola-Chicago got a great 
game from Mike Alesch who regis- 
tered a double-double with 31 kills 
and ten digs. 

LUC falls to 9-6, 5-3 MIVA. 

Behind an 18 point per- 
formance from outside nitter Matt 
Zbyszewski, the IPFW Volleydons 
swept through Quincy University, 
Friday night at the Gates Center, 



The Mastodons won by the 
scores of 30-21, 30-24, and 30-23, to 
improve lo 8-2 on the season, and 6- 
1 in MIVA play. 

Zbyszewski had 15 kills, six 
digs, ,\nd four block assists. 

Mitch Dreisbach was one 
kill shy of double-figures with nine, 
and he hit .412 

The MIVA's ffl blocking 
team roofed 15 total on the night, 
with Serdar Sikca equaling 
Zbyszewski's total of four. 



e finished with 21.5 points. 

With the win, IPFW 
improves to 9-2 overall, and 7-1 in 
the conference. 

The Mastodons will now 
hit the road for their next six match- 
es, before returning to the Gates 
Center to host Mercyhursl College 
on March 27. 
Zbyszewski named PoW 

IPFW right side hitter Matt 
Zbyszewski has been selected as 
the Midwest Intercollegiate 
Volleyball Association Player of Ihe 
Week. 

In IPFW's 3-0 win over 
Quincy, Zbyszewski had 15 kills 
and hit .423 (15-4-26). He added six 
digs, four assisl blocks, an ace serve 
and three assists. In the 3-2, come- 
from-behind victor over LUC, 
Zbyszewski equaled his career-high 
of 34 kills while hitting .351 (34-8- 



L 


■&gt;~ 


/ - 




| 


p MM 




%{ 


, «^&gt; * 


. 


__f ;■ Jki 




^^^VrD L&amp;6{ 


" n 9 


1 __ ~ &gt;ar 



ebrating for the IPFW i 



Photo provided 
&gt; volleyball team. They won two 



The weekend was wort 

conference games and are now 9-2 overall and 7-1 in MIVA play. The team will now hit 

the road for six straight games away from the Gates Center. 

IPFW ends season with loss at Valparaiso 



By IPFW News Se 



The Valpar, 
iaders used a 37 " 



Lady 



Zbyszewski, for thi 

matches (eight games), averaged 
6.56 points per game He averaged 
6.46 poinls per game while hitting 
.387. He averaged .62 blocks and 
2.32 digs per game. 

In the NCAA national sta- 
tistics from last week, Zbyszewski 
was leading the nation in points 
(7.60) and kills (6.55) per game. 



stretch, to easily out-dis- 
tance the Mastodons, in Ihe 2003-04 
season finale, 80-65. 

Valpo's run began with 
eight minutes left in the first half 
m\&lt;\ stretched to the 13-minute 
mark of the second half. 

The Lady Crusaders (16- 
11) owned a 19 point half-time 
lead, 38-19, mostly due to only 25- 



enl shooting by IPFW. 

The Mastodons were 
n by 43 points around the 12- 
jte mark of the second half, 
pulled it to within 13. 



nplj i 






so did IPFW's victory hopes. 

One 'Don that had it work- 
ing, was junior guard Courtney 
Nicley. Nicley drilled six triples 
and finished the day with a gai 



Senior forward Amy 



Gearlds finished her Mastodons 
career as the school's third All- 
Time scorer. She was the only other 
'Don in double figures with 12. 

Shooting guard Kathryn 
Knoester was tops for Valpo with 
21 points. 

With the loss, IPFW finish- 
es the season with a record of 8-20. 

In the post-Spring Break 



