Wednesday rvrcTr)P- 




GBSiilMlia 


SAB faU events, page 10 

FEATURES 


jMeelthestaff.page? ] 

FEATURES 


Soccer showcase, page 

■° SPORIS 



The 



OMMUNICATOR 



One free copy per 
student 



August 22, 2001 
Volume 36, Issue 1 



News Briefs 

Newspaper publishes 
new day; gets website 

In Ihe pasl. The Communicalor hit Ihe news- 
Btands talc TTiursday aflenioon. Tlili meanl (Kal 
studcnls wilh a Tuesday/Thuisday class schedule 
would not have a chance lopick up a copy until Ihc 
following Tuesday, when Ihe news is old and a new 
ls5ue is due out in Iwo days. The Communicalor 
will now be tcleascd on Wednesdays, so t) " 
Monday/Wcdncsday/Friday sludenLs ai 
Tuesday /Thursday students alike will by able 
read the paper closer lo the publicalion dale. 

"My goal as editor is to increase Ihe readership 
of the newspaper through more timely, accurate 
news niportmg- Publication on Wednesdays fits 
perfectly into thai plan," said Heidi Saliba. editoi 
of The Communicator 

Also new is The Communicatpr website, delail- 
ing major stories for the week from each section ol 
the newspaper. It will be updated the evening the 
paper comes out, with a separate page ior each 
story, as well as a homepage. 

The website can be found at; htlp.V/vinA'w.stii 
dcnl.ipfw,cdu/-5tupaper/Communicalorfrorit 

University receives 
re-accreditation 

The Higher Learning Commission ol the Norlh 
Central Association ofColIeges and Schools hi 
renewed IPFWs accreditation. 



aff and studeni 
review team visited Ihc TIk 
campus in Novermbei 
2000 to conduct interviews and review varic 

The team members concluded that IPf^V n 
the standards for renewal of accrcdilatlon. T 
Commission approved the team's conclusions 
June and scheduled the ncd comprchensi 
review for Ihc 2010-li academic year. 

"We are pleased that the Norlh Cenlral 
Association found that our programs and scrvici 
mcel their high standards," IPFW Chancelli 
Michael A. VVarlell said. "1 also want lo express ir, 
sincere appreciation for the letters of community 
support we received and lo thank llie faculty "~ "■ 
slafi who helped in the self-sludy process.' 

Gardner slated as first 
Omnibus lecturer 

^slling champion Rulon 

his year at ' 
scheduled for Scpl. 11 at 7 p.m. 

When Gardner look the 2000 OK-mpic gold 
medal lor wrcslline in Sydney, Auslraha, tus victo- 
ry rocked the world, tl was more than just a simple 
tale of success — it was Ihc story of an underdog 
who rose lo unimagined heigh Is of accomplish- 
ment and glory. An athlete wilh a history of 
notable, but obscure success. Gardner Ijecame a 
household name when he snatched 01&gt;Tnpic gold 
fn^m the hands of Alexandre Karelin, an athlete 
who had been undefeated since 1987. 

Workers remodel 
Walb Union Ballroom 

The Walb Sludcnl Union Ballroom has undergo- 
ing heavy remodehng. Nearly every aspect of Ihe 
room has been redesigned, including a ceiling 
Ireatmenl. light-dimming system, new wood floor- 
ing and wall tiles. 

A total of SS^l.HO has been spent on this new 
room. Construction, which began in Ihe late spring, 
was completed this week in time for Ihc new facul- 
ty and adminislrator's convocalion Aug. 20. 

Weather 



Moslly cloudy 
High: 82 
Low: 55 



Thursday 
Partly cloudy 
High: 81 



Mosirv cloudy 

High:-'84 
Low: 64 



Index 

Opinions 2 

Highlights 3 

News 4, 5 

Features 6, 8. 9 

Meet the staff 7 

Sports 10, 12 




'Corpus Qiristi,' 
public f oaun play 
out peacefully 

By Heidj Saliba. Editor 

In the Neff Hall lecture auditonum, normally 
reserved lo accommodate concerls and biology 
classes, a crowd gathered Aug. 14 lo hear and 
exchange ideas about Ihe play. 'Corpus Christi." 

Near capacity, llie room was filled with parlici- 
pants whose interest in the subjecl matter easily 
rivaled Ihal of the building's usual attendees. A 
panel of six men from Fort Wayne and Chicago 
look turns expressing their thoughL*: regarding 
Ihc play in five- to 10-minule intervals. 
Moderated by Fort Wayne Judge Fran Gull, pan- 
elists and audience members challenged each 
oiher on elements central to conltovctsy sur- 
rounding the play. 

Kevin Lj^ininger of The News-Sentinel, the first 
olsix panelists, said "...the key point is not really 
aboui gay rights, theology and not necessarily 
academic freedom. The hub of Ihe issue is about 
hypocrisy and double standards... academic free- 
dom applies nol to Ihe students, bul lo Ihe uni- 
versity and the faculty." 

Leiningor. whose colutim opposing production 
of the play first sparked public awareness, said 
IPRV's adminislration could stop production of 
the play "...just as the student newspapcrhas no 
ultimate freedom lo publish anything." In later 
remarks, this writer commenled that the publica- 
tion is an independent and separate entity from 
the school and does, in fact, have freedom lo pub- 
lish whatever Ls chosen. 

Alan SandstTom, professor of anthropology at 



ingcr; 



lied thai if 



i Association Director Jennifer Bosk hosted the organization's display 
ew faculty and administrator's convocation Monday, Aug. 20. 



sity in the strongest sense of Ihe word." 
Sandslrom also slated that canceling the play 
v.ould be an abrogation of the student directors 
righi to freedom of expression, and that 
Christians "..-claiming to be persecuted them- 
selves,. .dishonor Ihe true victims in this contro- 
versy" 

"Where were these people when the Ku 
Klux Klan lasl spoke in Fori VVaync? Theirs was 
a true obscenity," Sandslrom continued. "This 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ debate- tonight is how., the university doe's--: 

PMobyDMy Jong. Pholo EMM '^pfi,',Z'JfiZ', !i° ,?,' o]Z'"'LTS'- 
■ ig for ourselves (whether lo see ihe show)." 



Ste Clirisll, page 5 



Borelli's retirement brings new vice chancellor 



By Heidi Saliba. Editor 

Aflei 3S years in education adminislration, Vice 
Chancellor for Slud en t Affairs Frank Borelli is retir- 
iplacement. Edna Neal of Ohio, begins 
official duties Aug. 31. 

Borelli has been at IPFW since I9B8, when he 
was appointed lo what was then a new position. 

The vice chancellor for student affairs is respon- 
sible for erirollment management and the Offices of 
, Financial Aid, Student 
Academic Counseling . and Career Services, the 
flee, the Dean of Students, 
tural Services, Inlemalional 
Shidcnl Services, Services for Studenls with 
Disabilities, Student Orientation and Student 
Activities. In the position, Borelli also served on a 
number of committees, 

nplished.' 
During hts tenure, the vice chancellor t 
re-engineering of student services such as eiuoll- 
Tient, admissions, financial aid and billing. 

"We were able to put many functions online, 
like OASIS (Online Access to the Student 
Information SyslemJ-that is a remarkable 
accomplishment." 






e the 



of technology 
staff 10 help 
'ho need our help," 



also c 



ordir 



led the 



Ig of sludenls' counseling needs. 
"We're reallv positioned to serve students 
uch better than in the pasl," Borelli said. "Wo 



studi 

he added. 

Borelli's only regret is he ivill not 
be here to see the opening of the 
student housing complex in the 
future. "1 think (student housing) 
will add an incredible new dunen- 
sion to student life on campus,"' 
Borelli said. 

Regarding Neal, Borelli said she 
is '^...a wonderful new addition 
lo Ihe administration." 

"1 think she has wonderful 
experience and incredible ener- 
gy," said Chancellor fvfichael 
Warlell. "I believe she will be 
able lo move. -.that for which 
she's responsible, to the nexl 
level." he said. "She has experi- 



previous experience." 

Neal said she is ready for the 
challenges of the new year, "i'm 
looking forward to enjoying the 
environment here, experiencing 

again Ihe whole excitement of a 

fall quarter and helping students launch their 
careers," she said. "While interviewing, 
you gel one perspective of the campus; reading 
about it provides another experience, but actu- 
ally experiencing it is the real experience." 




Edna Neal, 1 



Photo by Heidi Saliba. Editor 
i Frank Borelli, discuss the role of 
for student affairs ai IPFW. Neal 
replaces Borelli, who has held the position since 19SS. 



Ne; 



lew fac 



lly a 



rclcomed Monday ir 



See page 6 for a profile of Nail. 



University renovates ID cards 



By Todd Hamm, News Editc 

L.ea Arm Gcbhard. designer of the new took of 
IPFW's University Services student ID card, said 
that when she was approached lo work on 
designs for the card, the university had wanted 
a look thai included the Mastodon mascol theme 
or prehistoric art and fossils. 

All that changed, however, after Ihe school 
did a focus group sludy to find out what IPFW 
students really wanted on their ID cards, 
Gebhard said. ' 

"The students wanled a card that looked 
more corporate and academic, and not so much 
a sports-lhemed look," said the IPRV graduale 
and area freelance graphic designer. "I think 
they wanted it to reflect their maturity level." 

Gebhard, tvho has worked for a number of 
cornpanies including Parkview Hospital and the 
ARCH historic society, owns the home-based 
_VisuaLEA Design. 

Gebhard spent a decade living in Louisville, 
Ky, where she worked for Power Graphics. She 
said she eventually turned lo freelance work 



1 campus. Students c 



, The City of Louisville a 



Mastodon sports logo rt 
August, 

The work on the car 
ing the early and mic 
completed in late July. 

Gebhard said sh 
University Relations, who 



had 



,S.7 



iged the proj- 

the university eventually chose a design 
Ihat features an ocean blue background wilh 
Ihe student's photo on the left hand side. The 
while text and the blue background match 
Ihe school's colors. 

As wilh Ihc previous version of Ihe card, 
the IPFW logo, address, student name and ID 
number are present. 

The card also features a superimposed 
"IPFW- faded into Ihe background. 

The student ID card is good for a number of 




The latest incamadon of the University 
Services ID Card was designed by Lea 
Ann Gebhard, who also designed IPFW's 
new sports logo. 



Opinions 



Chancellor greets 
students 



Aug. :6, 2001 
Dear Students, 

Welcome lo all new and returning stu- 
dents. I am delighted thil you have cho- 
sen lo puisue your education at IPFW, 
norlhcastcm Indiana's premiere public 

liversityl 

IPFW o((ers an outstanding education 

a great value, enabling our students lo 
earn an array of degrees from two dis- 
tinguished uruversitits. We arc commit- 
Icd to enhancing your access to person- 
alized, high-quality learning through a 
Wide vanelv of activiljes, services and 
priifjrams. Many of IPFWs programs 
oiN.T unique theoretical and practical 
li'.iming expenences Ihat draw on com- 
munity resources. IPFW programs pre- 
pare you lo enter the workforce in your 
(ho^n fic'ld or pursue further educa- 
iinn, jnd the si'niT.illy small class sizes 



give you and your faculty it-r upp^iriu- 
rily to discuss issues and class assii^n- 
menls or perhaps even collaborate on a 
resoafch prefect. 

Please remember that the university, 
servjcffi and support programs are for 
allstudenls-Therecfcalional (adliliesof 
Cales Sports Center, informational 
resources o( Helmke Library, plays at 
Williams Theatre and job placement 
support through Academic Counseluig 
and Career Services are just a few of 
such opporlunilics available to you. I' 
encourage you to visit our universily 
website at www.ipfw.edu for more in- 
dcpth information on university pro- 
grams, courses and special events. 

Best wishes in your journey toward 
pcrsorul and caree 
at IPFW. 



Michael Wartell, channllot 



By the way.. 

by Heidi Saliba, Editor 



I wiliH-;sed an inlcrostinc phpnomenon at the piiblir lor\im for "Corpus 
Chnsli' Tvicsdav night Kevm Leinmger oi the News-Senlincl and Robert 
Lockwood of [he Catholic League botii spoke at length about hypocrisy, double 
|slandandsandhowall voices should be heard and considered if those producing the, 
■play are allowed lo continue. Lcmingcr said some groups use the very tactics they, 
.claim lo oppose and thai Affirmative Action is an example of using racism to oppose, 
rjci.tm In Lxkwood's wonds, "If the university demands respect (or all, then thai ' 
e«iinds to all, including Christians and Catholics." 

What made these remarks interesting, iside from the mixed premises upon' 
which theiiwordswerecomposed, are the actions which followed thai negated the 
jrpinii-nts they worked so hard lo defend, thiring the time that Alan Sandslrom of 
, IPnv and Rusty Hernandez of Chicago were speaking, Lockwood shook his head - 
.from Side to side, crossed his arms in front of his chest and began speaking into Ihe' 
ear of Leinmgcr, who not only listened, but responded .with additional words and ' 
signs of disgust. Both panelists did the same thing when audience members were' 
;sharing views contrary to what Leirunger and Lockwood believe. None of the other; 
:paneltfts behaved in this manner, even when challenged on their beliefs. i 

■ I find it both sad and unfoclunale tfuit Leininger and Lockwood could noli 
'afford lo others the respect they demanded for themselves. The Biblical law of reap-: 
&gt; 'mg and sowing is carried out and respected by the world under the slogan, "What' 
goes around comes around." i pray that these two mdividuals, myself and others 
will examine our own actions before resorting to the bashing of social programs 
such ,M Alfirmative Action, which are designed to offset the corruption that called 
for their existence in the first place. Lcininger's and Lockwood's actions in thus 
'instance, spnke much louder thnn wond^ js ciamplt-s of the h&gt;pocri5y they claim 




Voices on Campus 

The CommLinicator asked students 
J "What made you decide to come to 
Here are some of their responses: 

"It was easier 
than Ball Stale 
and closer to 
.home." 

Randi Anglin 
freshman, ' 
Undecided 



"I'm a transfer 
from Ball State. I 
couldn't really 
afford to go 
away." 

Luke Landrum 
'sophomore. 
Computer Science 

"Close to home. I 
.can't afford to go 
to a big college," 

'Ashley Selking 
freshman. 
Dental Hygiene 



"Close to home, 
leasy to gel to and 
I cheaper," 

Adam Lahr 

freshman. 

Electrical 

Engineering 



3n campus, 
IPPW?" 




amar Lovell 
senior, 
Sociology 

"The location is 
really convenient 
and thesmaUer 
classes are realty 
I nice." 

Paul Hayes 

senior. 
Communication 




"It's cheap, it's 
affordable and I'm 
going into nursing 
and it's faster than 
any other school. 
And I like the 
campus." 

Heather Boger 

sophomore. 
Nursing 




IPFW heads down one of two roads 



Here in the comer of NorthtJ'.l Indiana bits a 
■ generally quiet campus, known around the Fort 
I Wayne area as a commuter college. But tfiis com- 
mulcr campus isn't like most and the image is 
, slowly being shed. With dorms in the very near 
future, I his small commuter campus is soon to be 
' known as something different. 

II is now that IPFW will come oul of Ihe 
("Commuter College" stereotype and into its own. 
As a Division I campus with dorms soon coming, 
last food restaurants and a gnawing Greek com- 
munity, to some, it looks like IPFW is starling to 
offer students the "college experience." 

Today, iPFW must wait down one of two 
roads Ihat will determine for years lo come how it 
is viewed as a university IPFW can either travel 
idown the road as the entire country now thii\ks of 
i1, as an extremely pro-gay campus, or a universi- 
ty known for its student involvement and activi- 
ties, such as Ball Stale, Indiana Stale or lUPUI, 

Sludenls are obviously divided as to which 
. image the university will project and it is highly 
' likely that the liberal and ^y students are thrilled 
Ihat IPFW IS getting [he negative national press 
coverage the past several months. Those number 
in Ihe minority, compared lo Ihe ttiany students 
.\vho would ralher sec IPFW him into an awe- 
e, fun-filled and entertaining i 



IPFW stu- 

dent, everyone 
made fun of him 
for going to "the 
gay school." 

Another hot 
topic on campus, 
" ■ 1 basket- 



ball 



thri. 



taking on big n, 



it lo S' 



■ IPFW 
fun 




_ miversitv. 
crsity will lake depends 
in Ihe students themselves. While it's obvioii ' 



Which road Ihe ui 



, the gay and liberal students are going to fighl for 
any and every right they can get, sludenls who do 
not aghje with allowing IPFW 
lationally labeled as a gay 
ip and do something abou. .. 

Recently, a very good friend of mine who for- 
nerly attended IPAV was spending the summer 
1 Daylona, Fla. While watching television one 
lay with several of his buddies, IPFW and 
Corpus Christi" came on national news. 
Joedless lo say, after the other students found out 



campus, it will be 
necessary far them * 
lo attend some 
games and eel involved. 

While il is not nccessar)' lo paint one's chest 
like a mad man (you can leave Ihat up to people 
like myselO, go lo a game, check it oul, come find 
me and I promise we'll have a blast togellier 
yelling at Ihe refe for their bad 'calls and cheering 
on our schoolmates. 

By gelling involved, it's easy to have a blast 
at IPRV, Jom a fraternity or sorority and enjoy the 
social interaction one can have with all new broth- 
ers or sisters. Il won't be long until the fralemily 
housesslarlpoppinguponcampus. either. Those 
are the experiences Ihat will be remembered long 
after graduation. Classes and finals are soon for- 
gotten, while fun times shared with friends are 
not. Seriously, check it oul. 

11 is unfortunate that IPFW is forced lochoose 
between being known as a "cool school" or being 
known as a "gay school." My own personal pride 
in IPRV has been greatly hurt by the choice lo pro- 
duce a play such as "Corpus Christi." 

Nol only is the play loo controversial for pro- 



school, but accord- 
ing to every person I 
have talked lo who 
has seen the play, il 
is very poorly wril- 
ten, I hope part of 
Ihe grade given for 
producing the play 
takes into considera- 
tion thai a very 
poorly wiillen play 
was selected and 
n A is not 
given for the solp 



Campus pride is 
the heart of any thriving universily. One most like- 
ly can name all loo many people who have 
tremendous pride in Indiana or Purdue. II is so 
important for a student to (eel a deep pride and 
associalion with his undergraduate college. 

Pride is what beings older faris into games. 
Basketball games at IPFW could be packed if there 
were pride in the universily, but they aren't 
because shjdenis arc not ycl convinced Ihat there 
is reason to be proud of IPFW. 

People can be proud of IPRV in many differ- 
ent ways, whether il is our nationally ranked engi- 
neering pEOgrams. being part of a fraternity or 
sorority. IPFW's Division I status or some other 
campus group. 

Just as easily, pride in a university can shatter. 
In times like these, a university can eilher make or 
break the pride of its students fordecadeslocome. 

It all comes down lo one simple fact. I don'l 
care whether you are straight or gay or both. 
Seriously, don't tell me about it. The vast majority 
of the civilized population in America could not 



give the slightest rafs behind about a person's 
sexual orientation. 

If you are proud lo be gay, then be proud in 
Ihe comfort and privacy of your own home. 
Likewise, if you are proud to be straicht, Ihen be 

Eroud in the comfort and privacy of your own 
ome. ScKual items and habits arc not something 
Ihat you should be sharing with anyone outside of ' 
your immediate circle of friends, 

Noonecarcs about my sexual orientation. No 
one cares about anyone else's sexual orienlalion 
either, so don't make a big deal about il. 

I will never proclaim thai I am slraighl in a &gt; 
public forum. It is no one's busuiess wfiat my sex- 
ual orienlalion is. (unless you're a really awesome . 
lady who wanls lo hook up with mc) and I could . 
care less what yours is (unless you're the same ' 
really awesome lady who wanls lo hook up wilh , 
me), so please, in Ihe future, don't tell me. &lt; 

As you read this today, IPFW begins its jour- . 
ney down one of Ihese two roads. Is IPFW going lo r, 
become overrun by students who are more con- ^ 
cemed about telling other people their sexualpref- 
erences Ihan about having a truly wonderful col- 
lege experience? 

Cme can stand there as a weakling, letting 
IPFW fall by the wayside or one can stand up and 
got involved in the universily Go lo Division I 



■ much that you can do lo gain pride in IPFW. 
Don't sit there and let your pride slowly slip 
away Each student's investment in IPFW nol only 
makes his collegecxpenence that much better, bul 
he also will fiave something lo be proud of when 
looking back on experiences al IPFW in 10 or 20 

Don't go to school simply for the edueahon- 
thal ts what often happens on a commuter cam- 
pus. Go to school for the relationships and memo- 



Editorial Board 



Ilcidi Saliba. £i/(ri&gt;r 
Nathan Dlchl, Managing Editor 
Tixld Humm, A'n'i Ediior 
Dann Early, FtalUKS Editor 
Jun Tcdcr^ Sponi Editor 
Mbhaona ^N'ood, Chief Reporter 
Dcnnlez Zhlt, Flioio Ediior 
Knlhy DiIagraDgc, Copy Editor 
Ella Slutzman, Adrenising Manager 
Dorlt Reynolds, Publisher 



Contact Us! 



E-mail: slupapcr@fio1mcs,!pfw.eiIu 

Tettphoixr: 

EdiuirJS 1-6584 

Publiiher:4g|-65SS 

Advertising; 481-6583 



Editorial Policy 



Unsigned editorials arc the opinions of The Con 
They do nol necuurily renect the views of IPFW. iu employees 
or iis student body. A column is solely ifie opinion of its aulhor. 

Tlie Communicator ueliajmes responses from its readers. 






:Edilo 



idguesl columns m 



accompanied by a current, valid address 

All submissions made via e-mjil uill tie verifial by phone or 
in person. Submissions via mail or e-mail without this infonnalion 
will not be published, cicepl under ntniorijinaiy i 
Class standing or liilc is also rajuesied, AtUreua and phc 



T be publisf 

Submiijions must be lypewriitcn. double-spaced and no more 
than 300 word.'^. It is preferred thw lubmiiiioni be senl lo Ihe email 
address liiied lo ihe tefl ("Conuci Usr'i. Submisjions for a weet'i 
issue musl be received prior to 6:00 a.m. Monday pnor lo Ihe print 
dale for timely coniideraiion, 

ThecdilDnal board of The Communicator reserves the righl lo 
edit all submiiiions for lengih. grammar. Kyle and claiily. Letters 
deemed libelous by The Communicator't editonal board will not 
be published under any circumstances. 



Augusi 22, 2001 



Highlights 



What's up this week 



Wednesday, Aug. 22 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer Meeting- noon-12:30 p.m. Neff 257 

Pagan Student Alliance meeting- 7:30-10 p.m. Neff 385 

Thursday, Aug. 23 

Laser Tag (SAB)- Walb Plaza 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 

Phi Kappa Thela Music outside Walb 9 a.m,-noon . 

Campus Ministry Bible Study- noon-1 p.m. Walb Union 114 

Friday, Aug. 24 

InterVarsity Christian Fellowship group meeting- 6-11 p.m. Walb Union G21 

Saturday, Aug. 25 

Campus Ministry Summer Cook-out at the home of Sherist Carrol- 2-8 p.m. 

Please call 481-6992 for more information. 

IVCF Leadership Training- 9 a.m.-noon Walb Uruon G21 

Sunday, Aug. 26 

Panhell Meeting- 3-5 p.m. Walb Union 222, 224 and 226 

Pi Beta Phi- 5-10 p.m. Walb Union 222 and 226 

Delta Gamma meeting- 5-8 p.m. Walb Uruon 114-116 

Monday, Aug. 27 

Anthropology Club meeting- noon-1 p.m. Kettler G50 

Campus Ministry Bible Study- noon-1 p.m. Walb Union 110 

Tuesday, Aug. 28 

Recruitment- 8 a.m.-6 p.m. 

Phi Kappa Theta Music outside Walb Union- 9 a.m.-noon 

Information courtesy of The Office of Student Life, from their web page: 
.ipftv.edu/5tuiife/calendars/evenls/Aug_eve.htm 



!ExceiTent 'Educators Series: 

Tfavicf Switzer oftde 
communication department 




Photo by Heidi Sabba, 
David Switzei; Chair of (he Communication Deparlmenl, 
is featured this week as an Excellent Educalior. 
Switzer was chosen for his leaching slylc, depth of 
knowledge about Ihe field of communication, and his 
interest in helping students. 



had rhc 
privilege of taking a course with 
David Swilzcr of the communi- 
cation depailmenl, figure out 
what he's leaching next semes- 
Icrand Tind a icason lo lake one 
□f Ihe classes. This professor. 
ivHd chairs Ihe dcpailment, is 
considered an exccllcnl cducn- 
for several reasons. 

First, his deplh ot fcnowl- 
!C on a number of topics 
communication is excep- 



tional. Well-skilled 
verbal exchange, Switzer': 
of leaching is highly ellecli _ 
lecture classes, his demeanor 



,tyle 



Top 10 reasons we're glad to be back at school: 

10. No more boring days watching the soaps. 

9. We get to learn again! 

8. One less year left of school. 

7. "High-speed" internet access. 

6. Easier- to- find things to do now. 

5. Increased excercise walking to and from class. 

4. Free enhy to Gates Sports Center. 

3. Two words: Division One. 

2. No more summer job. 

Wc get to see all our friends again. 

Highl ights Page Policy 



"Bothers is remarkablo-cven for 
^Ihose with Ihe highest of ■-'— 
" 'Irfards. II is evident Ihi 
verbal language Ihi 



iroueh ni 



enjoys the work he docs, 
Sludenls, likewise, enjoy his 

When explaining sophisti- 
cated, complex topics, he IS able 
to break them down by describ- 
ing orEflniZfllional pallems 
within Ihe slruclure. He uses 
quintessential examples to illus- 
Irate major poinis in his lec- 
tures, and carefully describes 
the boundaries within which 
they fall. This in lum renders 
comprehensible both theory 
and application of the lopic(s) at 
hand. To listen carefully, It is 
easy lo believe he could sell lo. 
barter with, argue elfeclively for 
or against, describe, analyze, 
challenge, console, humor or 
encourage any person at any 
lime on any topic for anv rea- 
son. He is truly a magician of 



v.iLin.~i&gt;l I- ih.ir.m^h, I'lMcit-nt 
jnd polonl. Miidenis and 
Lidvisecs benefit from the hill 
attention granted to them dur- 
ing an interview or planning 
session; Sivitier nuikes the most 
ol bolh momentary and long- 
Icrm discussions. 

On a very practical nolc. he 
easily negotiates student cvalu- 
alion'typc strata. The workload 
cvpected of sludenLi is reason- 
able, his tests are fair and his 
decisions balanced. The pace of 
Swilzer's classes is just right. 
Somehoiv, no mailer hoiv long 
he lakes answering questions 
and addressing concerns, the 
remaining Icclurc material is 
still covered adequately. His 
approach to leammg is pro- 
active and his instructional 
melhods lollow accordingly, 

A member of the Honors 
faculty. Swilzer easily fulfills Ihe 
program's rnissian. In addition 
to cKploring topics in depth, he 
encourages learning in collabo- 

Co mm uni cation courses tau^t 
by this professor arc indeed an 
of Ihe communlly o( 



II is not one particular facet 
of Swilzer's professional plau- 
dits which makes him effective, 
but rather the combinalion is 
what marks him as superb, 
Inlcr-dynamic, complementary ■ 
characlerlslics of his leaching 
and counseling styles arc why 
David Swilzer is considered an 
excellent educator. His pleasant 
approach and inleresl m help- 
ing others is part ol whal makes 
him an exceptional human 



The HighlighLs Page is a bridge belwe... 
Opinions and Features, as its regular columns are 
opinionated features articles on people and depart- 
ments at IPI^. The Excellent Educalors Series, On- 
campus Profiles and Reviews and Student Success 
Slones are intended lo highlight people and things 
that liappcn on campus. 

Highlights articles should be considered 
expositions, rather than investigations. Students 
are welcome lo send in remarks aboul teachers for 
Ihe Ejccllent Educators Series, Students, facult&gt;' 
and administrators are welcome to select studenu* 
for the Student Success Stories column Cniupi 
and organisations mav b-end ilu'ir accomplish- 
ments and upcoming evcnls (or t.insidefalion lor 



publication, although ni „ _...,. 

expressed thai submissions will be published or! ■ 
pursued. , 

Departments to be reviewed may submilf 
most ol their own information, as questions for thej , 
column are Ihe same, week after week, for every, 
department, AM remarks submilled by the depart- i 
ments aie reviewed and edited by the managing! ■ 
editor. Opinions from students and editorial com-' .■ 
menlary arc Ihe opinions ol sludenls. writers and) ■ 
the managing editor, r 

Any submissions, inquiries, requests or ques- 
tions aboul this or any page of TTie Commurucator 



ivited Plea 
i3thandich!6hotmail.co 



s.nd yoi 



r#« Firefly -- 

X -^ Coffee House 



3S23 K MtHony (BCvd. 

&lt;Ft. 'Wayne. m46805, 

219-373-0505 

Mon-THurs 6am-i0pm 
Tri 6am-llpm 
Sat. 7am-npm 
Sun. Sam-Spm 



'Fu(f 'Espresso &lt;Bar 

SpeciaCty 'Frozen Orin^ 

gourmet (Pastries 

Light (Brea^ast am£ Lunch Items 

Live music: Weekends 

LocaCArt &lt;E:(hi6itei{ 

Quiz !NighL- 9Aom£ays 

Open iMic'Tuesdays 

Ourdbor Seating 

'RgkjQng and Inviting Atmosphere 



"!Meet me at tfie Tireffy" 



Enduring Relationships 




Your Raymond JEunes Financial Advisor 

Few things withstand the test of lime like a solid relationship. 
At Raymond James, we take great pride in Ihe fact that the 
recommendations of our clients are our primary source of new business. 
It attests to our success in sustaining long-term relationships, ones that not 
only endure, but also improve with age. 

RAYMOND J AMES- 

S ASSOCIATES. lISlC, 

Mi-mlvrNcwVorliSUEkEutuneeuSIPC 

Ciimmitli'rf III VDur finani ial iuttire. 



Augusr 22. 200 1 



News 



Page 4 The CoiT 



Sir Louis 
resigns 

By Heidi Saliba, Edilor 

Diana Sir Loui; of Corporate Market Ing for Ihe 
Sfhool ol Visujl and Pcrlormlng Arts resigned 
Friday, JuJy 27, lo become a managing partner of ■ 
Stuclty Drolhcrs, Inc. ' 

Sir Louis was also regislrar (or Ihe Commumly ' 
Arls Academy and ciecuhve direclor (or Ihc i 
Indiana Arts Fcsl Maralhon. ' '' 

She was alliliated with IPFW for seven years, 
adcr starling out as a student of philosophy in Ihe 
Bachelor of Arts program, 

"I had an opportunily that came up and il 
would have been very foolish nol lo accepi il," Sir 
Louis said. 

After her firsl year as managing partner in 
Slucky Brothers, Sir Louis will begin a buy-out of 
the I hi rd- genera I ion famlly-owneti business, 

'SlucKy Hrothers has a hometown (eel, a (am- 
ily environment and has had many cvolulions 
smce 1914, It's lime (or another one and I'm excited 
about Ihe opportunily to be a part of thai," she said, 

"I'm looking forward to the challenge of run- 
ning an entire business." 

Bcntamin Chrisly, dean of Visual and 
Performing Arts, said Sir Louis' contributions to 
Ihe dcpailmeni were significant and thai she 
would be missed. 

'The Communily Arts Academy has grown in 
size and we've (oundmany new sponsors through 
her efforts in corporate marketing." he said. "Sne 
has tremendous enlhusiasm and professionalism 
and helped us establish contacts with many people 
Ihroughout Ihe city." 

Sir Louis, who also resigned from her olhcr 
two positions, expressed regret aboul leaving 
IPFV/ "This is an amazing school and VPA has 
an amazing thing. ..il's been an honor lo be at 
this school and I will miss il greatly," she said. 

Chrisly said one of VPA's goals is to involve 
and inform people Ihroughout the region in arts 
al IPFW. 'Athk'tics and the arts are bridges lo 
and from Ihe community. Diana helped us estab- 
lish connections to do all of thai, " he said. 

Sir Louis said the Community Arts 
Academy is Ihe largest ouiicach program on 
campus, and it has grown len-fold over Ihc past 
two years. She plans to continue charitable giv- 
ing and working with the communily 















"Custom 




dcdnitcly 

n Fort Wa 




all- 




and tha 


'S lacking 
nVPAanJl 




VVp 




c it here 




lake the 






style and 


approach 
" she said 


of 




Ion' 




to Stuckys 








Chrisly 


aid the search (or a 


repl 




me 




yet begun. 


as Ihe pos 


lion 


Sir 




Arts Marathon 
cancelled after 
losing money 

By Misharuia Wood. Chief Reporter 

Avid rurmers »vill have lo wail an undelermmed 
amount of lime before they can compete in another 
maruthon (26.2 milesj hosted by IPBV and The Fori 
Wayne Track Club. The Indiana Arts Fcsl Marathon, 
held on April 28, will nol be scheduled (or next spring. 

The decision lo cancel the Arts Fest Marathon 
was made by a group of people. It was meant as a 
tundraiscr.bulitdidnt raise funds. You put an incred-' 
ibie amount o( money into these things and if you 
don'l make that money back, you have lo cancel," said 
Chancellor Michael Warlcll. "I thirdt we've (ound over 
the years that big events are not a good way to get pri' 
vale developmental (imdsandildocsn't secmtobean' 
efficient way to do it." ' 

During the event, students from the School ol 
Visual and Performing Arts displayed their work in . 
booths. There were also several booths for local spon- j 
sors. In the meantime, if one was not visitinc the dis- 
plays, it was possible lo participate in an 8K run and:"" 
5K or 3K waits. There was also an activity area. Kid's 
Komer, for children. Door prizes and bag stuffers were ' 
avadable lo everyone who participated. All marathon 
participants received a finishers medal. 

"We're proud and excited lo participate in some- 
thing put on by the university and the Fort Wayne ' 
TVack Club- It look a large community effort lo put on , 
this event," said Benjamin Christy, dean of VPA. He , 
commented that it can take a number of years to build , 

The Visual Performing Arts Association is plan- 
nine an art fair in June. According to Chrisly, it will nol ' 
be the same as Ihe marathon. 

The Arts Fest Marathon, a qualifier for Ihe Boston 
Marathon, would have been one ol Ihrcc marathons in 
Indiana. It was a flat course that moved through the 
river greenway, Johnny Applesecd, Foster, Tillman, ' 
Swinney and Lake parks, as well as several neighbor- I 
hoods. The city has not featured any marathoiw since ' 
TV 33's Hook's Marathon in the '80s. 



Back to school 

Top: Nick Johrison and Jim Mel of the International Chapler of Inlervarsity 
Christian Fellowship assisted students Monday in Ketller Hall. 
Above: Cissy Sommers, a freshman studying pte-business, receives assis- 
tance from Arfs and Sciences secretary Michele DeVinney, 



VISIT 

THE COMMUNICATOR 

WEMTE! 

ff&gt;VW.itm]cnt.lnfW.rrtl[/~1trinatl,r;rnmm»n [falnrfrnnr 



Your ad ecu d be here! 

Call Ella Stutzman, Advertising manaqer 
at 461-6583 ^ ^ 

for information on ad rates and designs 



oftOBlEO DaViNc 

COFFEE HOUSE 



5905BLUFFTON RD. 

478-5665 

«n¥vr.daddlca&lt;l3vlncl.cc 



BRING IN THIS COUPON FOR 



The Student 
Recreation Center 



For Information call: 
481-6610 or 481-6614 




for Billiard 

^c per minute (Simonis 
Air Hockey and Video A 



m 




- 9 pm 

,jdent Union 
round Floor 



.his and Darts 



)ble 8t per minute,) 

:oin operated 

ed for table rental 



August 22. 200t 



News 



Chrisli. from page J 



Con 
Chu 



gtegarioi 
:h, said Ihe i: 
i3ed Iheques 



_ tudcnls Ihis yen 
Ourinx Sandsltom't remarks, Robert , . , - , 

Lockwood of The Calhohc League and Uininget " ' '^°'^ '°.'.^P?u 
jpoke amongsl Ihemwkes for I brie/ lime, " ^- "^'^"l *&gt;V -, 

When if was his lum lo speak. Lockwood f/'^^^l^^K ,^ '^'"] "' 
said -Corpus Chrisli- is inlended as anti- Ihe God that I worship 
Chrisllan. thai &gt;l o/Zends and does nol enlighren. t"° *''7^^ °^ ""^ 
Lockwood atso accused a local news company o( "^"S '" ""^ balance o( 
dislorling Ihe news, in his slalemcnl Ihal "Larry **■"=' happens on Ihis 
Life's friends al The Journal-Gaze tie began a cam- ""^P^" n=,Hr,»r 

paicn lo explain lo Ihe ollended why Ihey should 
nolTie offended." (Life is chairandai""' " 
of Ihe Iheatrc deparlmcnl al iPFW.) 

Lockwood speculated Ihal If D.W. Griffith's 
■Birth ol a Nation" were proposed for theahrical 
produclion. "...iPFW would have taken a dilfer- 
enl approach.- 

The message is Uiat intolerant speech is fine, 
as long as it's aimed a( Ihose who deserve it, 
rumely the Christians.- Lockwood continued. Tt 
Ihe university dcmards respect for all. then that 
extends lo all. including Chrisliar\s and 
Calholics." 

Rusty Hernandez of Ihe Bailiwick Arts 
Center in Chicago said his company is currently 
performing the pFay withoul any of Ihe protesting 
Ihal marks Fort Wayne. He said '...Corpus Christ 
docs not condemn religion, it merely reinforces 
the boltom line ol all religions... lo love one anoth- 



said.Therearealolof 

iVdIrecIo" ^■'^P^T'^u '" ^°u 
Wayne that have noth- 
ing lo do with the play 
The toueh work... is to 
realize that love is seri- 
ous business. I think 
the strategy is rial lo 
allend Ihe show if one 



k; 



Students and c 



asked by thi- 
leuuiitr whether h( 
fell responsible foi 
having generated the IhcJropi 
initial public interest 
which served 




ins Aug. 14 



Lockwood and Leiningei 
also exchanged Gestures and 
words during Hernandez's 
presentation. 

Rick Hawks, pastor of 
The Chapel, said he was 
thankful for Ihe open-door 
forum at Ihe university and 
that some of the protestor's 
signs on the opening night of 
the play were "...as offensive 

Hav 

move toward censorship, but 
lor an increased movement of 
personal responsibility and 
restraint, especially when 
something is offeruive lo a 
large number of people in the 
community. 

-As a believer in fesus 
Christ, I am not angered, but 1 
am hurt that the one whom 1 
believe died for my sins. ..is 
portrayed the way he is in 
Corpus Chrisli.' My svmpa- 
thy ends when 
sinless chai 



li.' My svmp 
n you lake ll 



Z' "Aq n hpflPTlPr /fP\ **'°"' ^^ ^P°^^ against, the 

]esiis Christ, I am not 
angered, hut I am hurt 
that the one whom I 
believe died for my 
sins... is portrayed the 
way he is in 'Corpus 
Christi.' My sympathy 
ends when you take the 
sinless character of Jesus 
and turn it into one of 
wanton promiscuity. ' 
Hawks said. "If we had 
practiced sensitivity, I 
think we could nave 
resolved the conflict. " 



t performances of the 



ilumnisi said no and that 
Ihe media did not create the 

"Nothing could be lurther 
from the truth," Leininger 
said. 'I try lo break as much 
news on the editorial page 
as I can. I couldn't haveVepl 
this going if I'd wanted lo. 
Deep con V id ions have kept 
it going. It has touched a 
nerve in Fort Wayne thai 
frankly shocked me," 

"1 think Ihe forum was a 
wonderful example of a dis- 



i of \ 



and I think that's very 
important in academic dis- 
cussions like Ihis," said 
Chancellor Michael Warlell. 
"[ think our security and 
public safety folks did an 
outstanding job. They 
plaruied well and they Ireat- 
ed people well." he said. 
IPFW Chief ol Police 
Lauren DenHartog said he is 
Is were minimal and non-vio- 
leacefully said what they want 
lo make sure they had that 



opporluiuly,- he said. 

lonalhon Gilbert. 
the student director of 
'Corpus Chnsti.'said 
lie thought Ihe public 
lorum '...went very, 
very well. I think it 

-fThe side whicti 
opposed the play) 
made their arguments 
very intelligently and 
It was refreshing. The 
forum did what it was 
supposed lo do * 

A theater review 
of the play which 
appeared online for a 

company dcsribed Ihe 

derfuL.hlled with pas- 
sion and poetiv and 

kind of luminous spiri- 

'i'lhink our stu- 
dents did an excellent 
|ob," Warlell said. 
PhoiQ by Hoidf Sahba. editor ^^'^^ Stressing that 
ily membere voiced anVndo™m'^f U.°e 
in the public forum, play or its contents, he 
said that in terms of 
the performance, he is 
proud of what the students dia. 

Controversy surrounding the play was the 
subject of several articles appearing in The 
Chicago Tribune, The New York Post, The 
Washington Post and other local ajrd national 
newspapers. The LA Times ran an article on 
"Corpus Christi" on its front cover. About three 
^vecks a^o, journalists and a camera crew from 
CBS national news traveled to Fort Wayne for 
interviews and film footage of the hype preceding 
the play for possible inclusion in an upcoming 
documentary on censorship. 

"We've done nothing lo publicize {the play)," 
Gilbert said. The theatre department never seeks 
oul controversies -we certainly don't need it. 

"hfost people wouldn't have known what it 
was," Gilbert continued, 'The gay community 
would have, ..This show has a special audieoce-it 
was written for gay men who've lost faith or have 

Suestions about their faith or (eel excluded from 
leir church. In Fori Wayne, that's a sizeable audi- 
ence, but it wouldn't have sold out six performanc- 
es." he said. "I think I could probably pay for grad 
school if I rented the Iheatrc and ran the show 
indefinitely. 

'I don't think anyone can decide (or someone 
else what art is." Gilbert said, "I don't particularly 
like Van Gogh's work, but that doesn't mean il's nol 
art. Art does nol have lo appeal to everyone. In 
fact, I think it's best when it doesn't." 

Gilbert used a ivoodcn fence in the play as a 
reference to the death of Matthew Shepard. a 



voung gay man who was beaten into a coma and 
left to die across a wooden fence in the country, 

"At the very leasl, I want (attendees) to con- 
sider somethmg they haven't before. Cliriit died 
in a Yale crime and was murdered for that. To me 
that's not all that dissimilar to what 1 read in the 



^ "Where were these 
people when the Ku Klux 
Klan last spoke in Fort 
Wayne? Theirs was a 
true obscenity," 
. Sandstrom continued. 



news every day." 

left Sterling, former CEO of United 
Scxualilies said he and the group have -., .stayed 
out of the debate because It's not a gay issue-it's a 
religious eiptession issue," 

'II IPFW (lost) the lawsuit, It would have 
been a devastating blow to religious freedom 
and academic freedom on campus., .that 
would be unfortunate, I think Ihe university 
should have a diversity of religious olferings 
available. To remove religion completely 
would be detrimental to people's growth. I'm 
glad Ihe university has decided to stand up for 
academic freedom and has not flinched 
because of the lawsuit. It would have been 






ially financially, to have nol 
But a lot of limes you have 



defended Ihe play. But 

to take that risk to stand up for what vou 

believe." Sterling said, 

Gilbert is also appreciative of the stand 
Ihe university took in defending the play, "I 
think there are a lot of men who wouldn't con- 
sider this part of Ihcir job, I have a lot of 
respect (or Warlell," Gilbert said. 

"It was very interesting for me to find oul 
for certain how strong my principles are," he 
continued, "Il's very easy to evaluate your world 
1 on the artist's obligations lo 
. „ ...,--[ lo my 

firinciplcs. I'm holding others to them as well. 
I's very pleasing to know what my principles 

When asked what his principles arc, Gilbert 
responded that he is ',.,an American first and 
foremost. From a sociological standpoint, we're so 
amazingly (messed) up. But we're gelling bettor 
and have so much potcniial-we can continue 
changing and improving, but we have to uphold 
the things that have gollen us here, When you put 
religion in charge, you end up in a lotalltanan 
slate and everyone loses. Men have died to ensure 
what is in the Constitution; that alone merils al 
least considering what we're doing. We're get- 
ling better, though, and this is a painful part of 




Get out of line and get to 

Tlie Bookmark 

for college textbooks! 

Vf^ sel( ittiefl college tcxtboolsH 
to students at all local colleges. 

Just soutli of IPFW Campus on 
North Antliony Blvd. 



BOOKS FOR ALL AGES 

wn-H.tllchooljiuirk.iict • 484- ItOOK {4S4-3«(i-&gt;) 
3420 N. Aiitliouv IHvcl. . Vt. Waviie, IX 46805 




Welcome to 



Student 

Computing 

(a IPFW! 



A major part of your academic lite 
involve using computers to stay 
competitive and progress in your 
courscwork. At IPFW. you'll use 

■^ To e-i 
^ To ac 

drop/add 

OASIS (Online Access to Student 

Information Systems) 
■^ For research via die Web and the 

Helmke Library database systems 



id classmates 
your student infon 



DToai 



■ials- 



instructors post syllabi, assignments, 
and other malctial on the Web, Some 
instruaors will use WebCT a web- 
based course management system 
•^ To prepare assigruncnts in word 
processing, spreadsheet, and other 
applications as required by 



Student Computing 
Infonnation on tfie Web 

For the lalesl In IPFW EampuUng 

Infarmatlon, visit tli6 Student Computing 

Rssaurces Web sUa (or, In the labs, click the 

Home button In Nelscaps). 

http://www.its.ipfw.edu/ 
students 



Student Computing Resources 




imputen (PC. uid M»aJ in ■) lib) In 6 buJdingi ktdu ompui jnd i lot 
d in r&gt;tt&gt; tnjiidmg isoo ompui All Itfri irr iquipjxd vnlh un.jlt Kii 
into, CD-RO,M ind mund apibiiitj ("ilh uKr-iap|ilKd htufphwirij 



F-miil ind P-.tnnjI Wph Publi^liinc Spin 



.MB of ptnonil Wib pobtuJiing tfta lo be u&gt; 



nASIH lOn l.n,- .t»rii Id Surfcni Infonn 

O.yiS will ilJD" ituilcnu onliM imu lo Aeir infomi 

0,\SIS PIN, ire olQinid from ihc Rigulrir'. Onin. 

a|:.,n^l,h,^r.n.T.hM. hltp://rci,ipr. 

t Uhru^ ^tjbufi uid aologt ire tmlAbte from I 



lie Wcbu Hfbnkf Libnij'i i 



gusi 22. 2001 



Features 



Jerry Cantrell performs good, 
but 'cushioned' show 



By/uon Savage. Sulf Wriler 



all Ihe big- hjired cover bands in bars doing "Man 

mlheBox"likeilwasaB(mJovisong), bul Iheband 

Gel ready boys and girls, il's lime to lire up Ihe did a eood (ob I have heard numerous rumors 

' old lime machme and laki? a journey back lo a lime about the condition o( the onguial crooner of Ihese 

before Lewinski.pre-Briltany and when we were all lunes. Tlie latest word on Ihe street is Ihal Slaley's 

a little more innocent .AS a nation. I'm talking about heroin use has gotten so bad that he h.is lost all of 

nly slightly soiled, the his teeth. This may or may nol be true, but I kind of 

ncr in some computer doubt thai he is walking around looking like Shane 

membered it did have MacGowan, (Only truly cool people will get this 

reference.) 

Former bandmale 
I comparison aside, the hot- 
line is thai Cantrell 
I was impressive. Plain and 
I simple, the show was a 
good lime. Cantrell is one 
I of those singers who can 
' ' ver a song without 



Ihe days when Oinlon wa; 
Y2K bug was merely a gtii 
nerd's eye and rock music 
a brain. I am referring of 
course, lo Ihe early '90s 

This was a lime when 
il was nol mandatory for a 
hard rock band lo contain 
at least one dreadlockcd 
or bald member in order 
to get signed. Bands such 
as Sound garden. 

Screaming Trees. 

Smashing Pumpkins and 
the like could be heard, 
identified with and even 
appreciated by older rock 
fans. (Don't pretend like 
you were above il now 
that it's nol in vogue any- 



Ihal you heard 




. spas 



and still estab- 



"look ai 



15 noi DccauM." j nuu 

mpty Saturday night Jerry Cantrell performed recenljy 
a full bottle of " 



Farm; it is because I 

allcndcd Ihe Cantrell show at Picre's on July 10. For 
those of you who are unfamiliar with this name, 
and wonder why I'm talking about grunge in a 
review o( a country concert. Canlrcll was the gui- 
tarist lor the mighty Alice In Chains. Since Ihe split 
of AlC. Cantrcirhas been cultivatinR a solo 






1 titled 



"Dcgradali 

Not thai one would really know he had a new 
album out, at least nol from the set list. I would haz- 
ard lo guess that about 80 percent of Ihe songs 
Elayed were from the Alice catalogue. Not that I 
avc any objections, mind you. 1 love the music and 
Cantrell has the right to play his songs, Cantrell 
himself handled much of the vocalizing on his solo 
stuff of cc 



Ritalin" demeanor, which 
is cool if it is genuine, but 
Cantrell comes across as 
more of a "lislen to me" 
kind of guy. 

Canlrcll and the 

boys delivcicd what the 

crowd came for; good, 

n- . — r , o « hard rock and toll. Even 

Photo by Jason Savage ^^^^ wife-beater shirts at 

souvenir stand that 

iply read "II don'l 

suck" across Ihe front 

painled an accurate picture. The band did a cover of 

''Hey Joe" by Hendrin, which came off well, but 1 

wish Ihey would have done something more i 

inativc. Tliat didn'l mailer lo the crowd thi 

Everyone seemed to be into Ihe whole show. 

The only real thing I could whine about was 
the bulk of the show being Alice In Chains maltn- 
al. Sure, I tike hearing the songs and the band did -i 
good (ob on them, bul 1 still wanted to hear moru 
sluffoflthesolorccords. Now, lo do my best Dennis 
Miller here. I don't want to go off on a rani, but 
come on Jerry! If you keep relying on Ihe old slan- 
dards to be the meal of the evening, you are going 
lo see your name in lights right below Wayne 
Newton and have lo drive past the Excalibur to get 
o work every day. The solo sluff I have heard is 



SAB welcomes students back to campus 



By Dawn Early, Features Editor 

The Studoil Activities Board is ready to 

make their presence known and welcome new 
and returning students lo campus. With tnany 
activities for the year already planned. SAB is 
kicking off the first week of school with a full 
menu of activities which ate free to students. 

SAB is under a new director this year. Brian 
Miller took over the position of vice president of 
programmmg and now heads SAB. He has been 
working during the summer lo plan new events, 
as well as improve some traditional events. 
According to Miller, things are going well so far. 
He said, "We're really excited about the upcom- 
mgye.i-~ 



free to students and il provided a fun way to 
lighten the mood lor the first days of school. 
According to Miller, even some professors were 
aniious to join Ihe fun. 

Today from 11 a.m. untd 1 p.m., SAB will be 
hoslmg a Welcome Back BBQ in the Walb mall. 
There will be barbeque chicken from Lee's, a hog 
roasi and pizzas from Pizza Hul. According (o 
Miller, students should take advantage of this 
free meal because it will also eive Ihem .in oppor- 
tunity to meet new people. He acknowledges that 
meeluig new people can sometimes be tough. 

On Thursday, Ihe fun will continue when 
students will be able to test their skills at laser 
lag. SAB will have a unit set up in Walb mall. 
According to Miller, this will be a fun activity for 
grouM lo altempi together. 

This week is jusi the beginning of a sched- 
uled fall SAB activities. On Aug. 29, SAB will be 



hosling Eiticme Air. On Sept. 13. a drive-in 
movie will be held. SaB plaru lo project a movie 
onto one of the parkutg garages and allow stu- 
dents to i1e(v it from the Rra.My area. On Sept. 26. 
they will host an event called Inflatablcs. 

October 15 also packed with activities 
including Ultimate Pholo on the 23rd and a 
Halloween dance on the 31sl. On Oct. 12, SAB is 
hosting Midnight Madness lo help kick olf our 
first Division I basketball sea.son. As part of 
Midm^l Madness. Bobby Plump, the inspiration 
for the last second snooter in the movie 
'Hoosieis." will speak. There will also be many 
giveaways available. SAB has also organized a 
ran bus lor certain away games 

This is just the beginnuig: many plans are 
also in the works for Ihe spring. For example, in 
March. SAB is plaiuiing lo tiost a brgc concert at 
the Coliseum featuring some wcll-kno(vn artists. 
There are also plans for a somi-lormal dance, 
which vdll be held in the Walb Ballroom. Plans 
have begun for a basketball homecoming and 
yearbook in the coming years. 

"We are trying lo provide a student life 
atmosphere." Miller said. He savs that hLS main 



According lo Justin Busch, student body 
president, no one has worked hanJer than Miller 
in trying lo plan new and exciting events for stu- 
dents this year. 

Even though things are going well. Miller 
expressed the need for more SAB members. He 
^,.A ;• :, , grpaj y,gy [qj jiudenls to gel involved 



eluded Chains gems like "Rooster," "Would," Despite the grievances of a fan boy. the show 

"No Excuses" and even one of my favorites, "Whal was quite good and 1 will be purchasing the new 

the Hell Have 1?" (Whichcomplclelysurprised me, Cantrell (not lo be confused with his cousin, 

considering it is somewhat rare.) Blue. ..ha?) as soon as I leam how lo slop parking 

It was a lillle different nol hearing Laync where I'm nol supposed lo and have a few extra 

Staley bleeding out Ihe songs 1 had spent a good bucks lospend. 
portion ol my early twenties with (I'm nol counting 




Photo by Heidi Sallba. Editor 



Biology sophomore Chris Childers (left) and biology freshman Jeremy Smith hang 
oul in Walb Union Monday, the first day back at school. 




Get Real with God! 

What's Happening with the IPFW 
Campus Ministry Student Group? 

• "Back to School" BBQ &amp; Pool Party 

Saturday, August 25th 

Meet at IPFW parking lot #7 at 2 p.m. 

• Weekday Noon Bible Studies on 

Mondays -Walb 110 
Thursdays- Walb 114 

• Great Fall Retreat 

September 7-9 

Beautiful Camp Lake Wood 

• Free Weekly Internet Devotional 

CALL US AT 48f-6992 FOR 
MORE INFORMATION 



Stretch your ^ 

dollars at .^ 
Canterbury f 
Green! - 




"• Fitness Center 

• Clubhouse 

• Onsite 18-hoIe golf course 
-4^ • 4 Sparlding pools 
J^ * certain conditions apply 

Call Our Office TOLL FREE! 

1-800-901-8664 ^ 

Nortlieast • 2613 Abbey Dr. 
. Tues. Thurs, Fri, 9-6 • Wed. 9-7 • Sat. 10-5 • Sun. 12-5 



Canterbury Green 

Apartment Homes 
7iife atth. UMiUf io^ Uvef 



$ 



Augusi 22, 2001 



Meet the staff 



i 

Meet 



Heidi Saliba, Editor 

Hfidi IS a senior in Media 
Publii: Communjcarion. Si 
enjoys sera pboo king, spending 
ime wilh her lamily and 
I (lending Nalive Ameriran 
festivals. She pUns to allcnd 
l^raduale school or work lor a 

Tul newspaper. She has 
been on (he sljff for one ycar. 



^^^^ Managing Editor ^^^ News Editor ^ 

^^^Bi^ Nathan, aCompQtfrS&lt;:ien&lt;:c ^0^^K Todd en|0&gt;^ reading Eami-^l W^IS^ \ 

^^B9. 9 nu|Or, enjoys iollowing high ^E^^^V Henungivay cUmics. boiung; ^^HRU^lfX. a^M 

^V^" '^ school cross country and lis- ^BBI^B pUying basketball and guitar. ^^K|L^Bb&amp;||H 

^^N/ ^ / terung lo the Dave Mallhews ^^^^^H He Ls a seruor English major ^^^^B^V^^^^H 

V|X.^J^ Band. Afier graduation in ^^^^L . and plar\s toseckacaTWrm ^^^F^ ^^^^| 

^^^■^ T^^^^ December, he plans to accept a ^^^^^^h journalism after gradu;iting. ^^^ ^^H 

^^K^^^^k &gt;»lliiincF«&gt;L&lt;iir&lt;mpubln- ~_,efl^PF«&gt;^ If 1 



Todd Hamm, 
News Editor 

Todd enjov^ reading Earn 
Henungivay classics, boxing, L 
playing basketball and guitar. 
English major j 
and plar\s to seek a 
journalism after graduating. 



Dawn Early, 
Features Editor 

Dawn 15 a senior in English. 
She enjoys writing, spending 
■'me with her family and plan- 
ing hcf wedding. Her plans 
&gt;r the Future will include 
&gt;me type of non-hclion writ- 
ig Thui is her second semc^- 
■t with The Communicator 



A 



Jon Teders, 
Sports Editor 

IHis favorite thing to do is sit 
Ling on the couch, watching ' 
Saturday afternoon college 
football. Allcr college, Jon 
plans on gettmg a job as a 
sports wnter in Bcanlown. 



a 



Denniez Zhie, 



Photo Editor 


' -ma^^mm 


Denniez is a senior in Visual 


L^'^^^B 


and PcrJormmg Arts and 


Graphic Design He enjoys 


nv 1 V-^^H 


photography, music, and 


L\ \ -^i^^Bbi 


hanging out with his friends. 




TTii'^i..hi-=,-x-nndsenn--^ler 




-k; Pholotditur 


■VuWJ 



t(j,e 



staff 



Kathy Delagrange, 
Copy Editor 

Kalhy, a senior majormg in 
Business Management, enjoys 
reading and watching movies. 
While working as a registered 
nurse at Parkview Hospital. 
Kathy plans lo pursue an 
MBA. She has been with The 



Con 



form 



ethai 






A 



Mishanna Wood, 
Chief Reporter 

Mishanna is a senior m Mcdi. 
and Public Communication, 
She has worked on The 
immunicator for three 
ars. In the past. Mishanna 
15 NVnvs Editor and Editor 
lhi&gt; newspaper. 




Ella Stutzman, 

Advertising 

Manager 

Ella IS a senior majonng in 

phic Dcsigji, She loves 

being creative and meeting 

people, Allcr groduahon,»" '^^_,' 
she hopes lo work for an ^^ 

advertising agency as a 
graphic designer 




Chris Sutton, 
Staff Writer 

iisa wniorinCraphic 
pi. She describes herself 
.mildly insane and highly 

obnonious." Chris is the 
ilhor of "Art Impact," a ni 

features column This is her 
iemester with Ihepapci 




Andy Welfle, 
Staff Writer 

,ndy is a freshman in Media 
and Public Communication. 
He enjoys crcalive writing, 
reading, spending money, and 
■s. This is his first 
.vilh the paper. 



Brandon Schwarze, 
Staff Writer 

don IS a Ireshman m Media 
anl FViblic Communication. His| 
csis are history. Iheati 
:lassic comedy This is h 
fir.l)i;arnnTlieCoinmunicalor. 




ofT'de 



Jason Savage, 
Staff Writer 



Commu 
nicator 



Jason is a line arts student whose major is photography M 
interests are music, reading and racquclball. En the futui 
ne would like have a photo job in the music industry. 



Adam Spieth, 
Staff Writer 

n IS a double major in 
History and Social Studies 
alion. He enjoys playing 
r and is cun'ently a high 
school coach Hi: is a junior 

If with The Communicator. 




Heather Gatson, 
Staff Writer 

Heather is a transfer student whose mj|ot is Media and 
Public Communication. She would like to woik in ]ou 

after graduating. This is her first year wilh The 



! 



The one chance you have to 
save money in college. 



SAVE 



ON OUR S3S 
EXPRESS ^^^ 

est C9 CB9 

PHONE '"""" 



nienniol wants to free you From o life oF digging in 
! coucFi For loose change just to buy o pizza. So For 
imiled lime we've knocked 40 bucks oFF our Express 
one Now you con folk oil you woni wherever you 
nl without blowing o lot of dough. Our folk plons 
fl OS low Qs $15. And it's prepaid - no ntonlhly 
Is. So you don'l even hove to waste money on o 
mp. There's nol even o credit check. Because lolking 






s eosy with Centennial. Rtlai.jou'rtailhfhtndi. 



9 



CEISTTENNIAL* 

WIRELESS 



SITMncX) ai3ttt 






■II dvrs. M&gt; aWi ^m&gt;t&gt; I. ; 



AugU5i 22. 2001 



Features 



: 3 The Comm 




Photo by Heidi Saliba 
Elcmenlary Education major Lindsay Ostman, a junior 
and Noel Hlavaty, also a junior education major, met 
before school Monday on the first day back. 



FIND YOUR INTERESTS 



Student in the spotlight 

Helga Portela of Angola^ Africa 



UvHeidjSjIibj, Editor 

"1 would like lo make AmcnCJn 
■ricnds and see how Ihcir ramily 
.vorki," said 25-year old Helga 
Porlela oi Angola, Africa. TTie IPRV 
Medical Tcchrologv 
Ihe Angolan capital 
Luanda. 

Porlela. who attended one year 
al high school m Indiana, speaks 
Porluguesc. English. Spanish and 
Angola's traditional language, 
Kimbundu. She is thinking attout 
learning French. 

In her eiperiencc here. Poilel.i 

been most surprised by Ihf 
ilher, iood and the Tayoul of the 

A native Angolan. Portela grew 
up traveling lo the tieach nearly Photo by Heid' Saliba 

every weekend and enjoying the Helga Porteta siudias Spanish in aOdilion lo speaking saver- 
Iropical weather m Afnea. -Indiana ^^ languages. 
a too cold...l don I like snow and 
cold weather," she said. "En my cnres are undoubtedly Ihe result of grow- 

intrj^ we just have Iwo seasons-rainy ing up in a tropical, healthy area of Africa, many opportunities for young peopli 

imbo." (Casimbo, Porlela her dismay with public tnmsportalion is Early and secondary education in the 

milar lo fall in North based on etiwriences verv simUar to those United Slates, though, docs not provide , 




"It's hard. ..my country 
too far away and tickets ace ti 
expensive." she said. 

Lasl December. Porlela 
spent Christmas with her moth- 
er and two brolhcB in Portugal, 
but she has one other bromei 
whom she hasn'l seen in lout 
years. The distance between her 
native country and Indiana is 
often ralher difhi ' 

Besides Portugal. Porlela 
has also traveled lo Brazil. 
Canada and Belgium. There is 
one place, hoivever, she has not 
\ft l&gt;cen to that is al the top ol 

"Japan has always been 
the cour\lry ol my dreams. I'd 
love to see all the people who 
work there and how il opcr- 

Portela said she likes the 
United Slates l&gt;ecause there 



CK plained, is very si 



who grew up in Fori Wayne. 

The vancty and plenlilude of sugary '^Everything is so spread __ 

;l foods available in the United Slales she said. 'The buscsi don'l work like they 
melhmg of an anomaly to Portela. do in Bloominglon, which (cycle) every 15 

■ t„ n,„ r.,Mn.^ =w„,,., foods are just minutes. Here, you have to wait for an 

For Portela. ivho is Catholic, family 
and Christian holidays are very important. 



for desserts, not regular food, 
The student described an incioeni ii 
hich she -vas dining out al a buffet-styli 



restaurant and chose a helping of green Going lo school so far from home has been 

To her surprise, those too were difficult for herbctausesheisverydosc to 

aden with sugar- "I was so mad," Portela her family Pricey airfare is the greatest 

laugh. -How come those have obsladc lo traveling back and forth as 

often as she'd like. 



be sweet?" 



broad enough base in the knowledge of 
here," geography, Porlela said, 

"In Ihe United Stales, you learn 
(mostly) about the U.S., a little about 
Canada and a little about Mexico." she 
said. "In Angola, we Icam about all Ihe 
counlries. People (in the United Slalesj 
think Africa is one big country, not a contl' 
nent," she continued. 

Judging from some of Ihe comments 
and questions she has received about her 
background, it would appear her analysis 



While her v. 



ather and food prefer- 



"Pcople have asked me if my family 



.4**w [jO(z\(loh(z. IS^clc 



"OKtlldBd 



rpao 



I PJ D I A N A PURDUE UNIvERSI 



WAYNE, INDIANA 



FOLLOW YOUR DREAMS 



«x 




IPFW's #1 Dance Party Club! 



THE BEST LTVE ROCK THURSDAY-SATURDAY 



KARAOKE MAD MONDAY 



STARTS AT SP.V • AO COl-ER 

SI.75 LONGNECKS • S2 MAD ANTHONT PINTS 

S J. 50 SHOTS 

Wednesday. August 29 

UtE ACOl STIC UlSIC STARTS A T SPM • SO COl EH 

MIKE CONLEY 



Thunday. AiQBt 23 

HEAVY STEP 

ffUiy.tJWStZt 

KIRKWOOD 

Satiinlay.Aivitt2fi 

REAGANOMIGS 



Tlmday.AiQntSO 

THE BLUE MOON BOYS 

Sabrday Septsnttr 1 ^Sp 

XRAY ROBER JIMMY 



Friday. Augoit 31 

JOHNNY SOCKO 



LADIES NITE THURSDAY ' COVER JUST $1 



M*0*M*S (Midwest Original Music Showcase) 



Toesdav.AqpBtai 

HOMELESS J e PANORAMiCS 



On tlie Landing » 135 W. Columbia St., Fort Wayne • 422-5055 • www.columbiastreetwestconi 



a 



Features 



Impact Art 




By Chris 
Sutton 



dFear 



The 



! of Rsci 



Susan Lcslif Lumidcn series as Curator for Uic eihibil. 
"Rools" fealurcs quills (rom 50 arlisLi. Each piete addresses prej- 
" :(■! like rarism, sexism and homophobja. 

Lun^en says (he goal of Ihe eu\ibil is lo create discussion, 
"Ractsrn is not a prelly subject. II is fraught wilh cmolion, 
|whelh(.&gt;r ,in^i'r or guill, so II is not being discussed much al all. 
e arc on a planet wilh a populalion soaring pasi Ihe 6 billion 
. We musl be looking (or ways lo find il comlorlable lo be in 

Lumsdcn says the quilting medium promotes discu^i 
iTuills on their own are viewed as safe symbols of all that 



riRli1.:i 



IF^ 



iile Ideas that may stretch the vi 



^titl being safe enough 

Kiangalinaki Hamf donated her quill "A Good Man Cone" 
lo the exhibit. The piece addresses the (ar-reachmg unpad oi vio- 
lence created by racism, ignornncc and fear "The quilt attempts 
to address the impact ol (hat iiiolence not only on the victim, but 
M'^ family and the world community," Hanif says. 

Kaiiif lives in Etiviera Beach, Florida, and uses her quilting to 
impad her community Hanif won the neighboihood Artist 
Residency Projccl grant from Ihe Palm Beach county Culhjral 
Council in both 19S9 and 2000. Hanif used the 1999 grant (o teach 
PJeasanI Cily. Ronda. leenagers arts like doll makuig and quilt- 
ing. The 2000 grant went lo teach doll making to the parents of 
Head Star! students in Ihe Palm Beach County area. 

Almerphy Frank-Brown is a featurcci artist. Her quill 
Injuslice" illustrates Ihe need foe an exhibit combating preju- 
dice According to Frank-Brown, thousands of Americans were 
Ivnched by mobs in Ihe early 20th century without Ihe benefit of 
Inal. "The US today has over 2 million dlizens in jail...lhe hi^\esl 
proportion of any country in history. Blacks are 83 limes more 
likely (o be incarcerated man white people. Gay bashing, as evi- 
denced by Ihe murder of Matthew Shepard in Laramie and other 
hale crimes, are on the rise," Frank-Brown says. Frank-Brov-n's 
piece addresses Ihe issues of prison, lynchmg and gay bashing. 

Some artists created the quills not only to fight racism but as 
a formof healing, Joy Allen is one such artist. "I started (quilting) 
in 1994, after I quit my job due to health complications from a rare 
formof multiple sclerosis. After tteattnent for depression, I decid- 
ed I didn't have enough color in my life, so I took up embroidery. 



Paula Rice. Director of Ihe WBNI Arts Calendar, shared her 
views on Ihc cidubit. "You can view these as jusi pretty pieces on 
the wall, but (he more time you spend with it the more you get 
out of it," she said. Ricchersclf spent over two hours at the exhib- 

Rice says the lessons learned extend lo all aspects of life. 




Pholo by Deddy Jong 
The University of St. Fr.inci^ l^ hL'^lln^ an jrl cvhibit 
entitled "Roots of Racism; Ignorance and Fear." 
exhibit will be displayed until August 31. 



"For a lolof us.il'saboulbeingasopcnasivecaninourimiccor 
ner of Ihe world." 

Lumsdcn agrees, saying "Stan a discussion. Talk about Ihi 
value of cuilural diversity. Talk about what brings us logether. By 
doing so we can reduce {he ignorance and fear Sal has fed racul 
ideology-" 

"Roots of Racism: Ignorance and Fear" is on display until 
August 31 at the Mimiand Ian Rolland Center on the University 
of Saint Francis campus in Fort Wayne, 



New Vice Chancellor brings open mind, success 



By Heidi Saliba. Editor 



Wilh Ihe new semester comes a new Vice 
Chancellorof Student Affairs. Edna Neal of Ohio 
A 13-year veteran of Sinclair College in Dayton. 
Neal accepted Ihc position al IPFW as a career 
move and for the neiv eipcricnccs working m 
Indiana will offer. 

"I think I made a good contribution at 
Sinclair," Neal said. "It's lime lo revitalize myself, 
and going to a new environment is a good way lo 
do that." 

Ncal's professinnal credits include a doctoral 
degree in H^hu Eduolion Administration from 
Indiana University, as well as a Doctorate of 
Education degree she earned in 1978. At Sinclair, 
the student body is nearly twice thai of IPFW's 
and conscquenlly. the work environment is much 
fasler paced. 

"Tliis is much more calming, I'm looking for- 
ward lo il." Neal said. "IPFW is an urban campus. 




worked in a last-paced ei 
ing under the Sinclair slogan 
as opposed lo iust harder. 

"Thai is the emphasis 1 want tt 
she said. 



"People are very important to me," she said. 
"I invest a lot of time in getting to know the peo- 
ple. At Sinclair, I will miss the people." 

Neal said Ihc persons with whom she's come 
in contact al IPl'w have been "friendly and 
upbeat." and the students have been very kind. 

As Vice-Chancellor, the first thing she plans 
lo do is get lo know Ihe people. 

"I plan lo learn who 1 m working with and 
for,-. I plan to talk to a lotof people and listen loa 
lot of people, and make sure I have a good under- 
standing — a full understanding — of Ihe needs and 
interests of Ihe shidents we serve. That's very 
important lo me," Neal said. 

The new Vice-Chancellor described her work- 
ing style as composed of four parts: listening, mak- 
ingsure she has all of the critical information that's 
needed to make a good decision, using that data 



ulliplesourccsof irdormation," Neal 
added. "I want lo avoid Ihe posture of 'one size fits 
all.' Students are unique, and I need lo understand 
who Ihc students are," she said. "One of Ihc rea- 
sons I'm in this business at all is because of my 
belief that policies and practices in higher educa- 
tion should be designed to ensuie thai students 
have a chance, an opportunity to achieve their 
career goals." 

Also important lo Meal's agenda is "...help- 
ing the institution remain true to its mission and 
goals — focus on students' needs. If Ihc liutilulion 
retair« its focus on students, it will lake care of 



[Cheddars 

casual cute J fp) 



Cordially invites 

the students of 

IPFW 

Dessert 

. ?^'^ 

Cheddar's - 
Great Food, 
Great Times! 



no* 



COUPON 



I Receive a 

I FREE DESSERT 

1 with the purchase of 

' any meal. 

' Not valid with any other offers. 
' No cash value. 

' EXPIRES 12/31/01 

305 West Coliseum '484-4631 



^IPFW 



Campus 
- Calendar 



forAus. 23-31, 2001 


SAB events. WU mall. 10 a,m,-1 o.m.: for 




ktchoff party follows the auditions; 


information, call 6609. 




everyone Is Invited. For Infomiallon, call 


Z1 BumperCars. 




6551. 


23 Laser Day. 






29 Extreme Air. 


27 


Writing Center opens for consulting. 
KT Z3.1; for information, call 57^0 or visit 


2Z Writing Center open house, KT Z34, 
11 a.m. -3p.m. 




wwv/, ipfw.edu/engl/wchome.htm. 


2B 




25 Wizards game ror alumnt and friends, 




Center's "Welcome Back" Stress Buster 


Memorial Stadium, 6 p.m.. tickets, 55, 




Day, KT, 11:30a, m,-li30p,m. For 


For information, call 6807, 




information, call 6647, 


Soccer Showcase, Hefner Soccer Fields, 


31 


Career assessment group 


tickets at GC, One-day pass, SlO; three-day 




interpretation, KT 128, noon; for 


advantepass, SI 5; and three-day pass at the 




info/mattoft, call 6600. 


gale, S20. For information, call 661 7. 






24 Women's soccer: IPFW vs. lUPUl, 3 p.m 


; Ubc 




tUvs. Illinois State. 5:30 p.m. 


7 


Center for Women and Returnlrtg 


Men's soccer: lU vs. South Carolina. 




Adults' Pliza Party for students with 


8 p.m. 




families, WU Ballroom, 6-8 p.m. 


25 Men's soccer: West Virginia vs. 




United Sexualitles camping trip to 


Michigan, noon: South Carolina vs. 




Mongo, continues through Sept. 9. 


Kentucky. 2:30 p.m.; lU vs. Alabama- 






Birmingham, 5 p.m.; Notre Dame vs. 


11 


Omnibus Lecture Series: Rulon 


IPFW, 7:30 p.m. 




Gardner. Olympic wrestling gold 


26 Men's soccer: Kentucky vs. Alabama- 




medalist. "OvercomlngObstacles." 


Birmmgham. noon; Michigan vs. Notre 




WUBallroom,7p.m. 


Dame, 2:30 p.m.; IPFW vs. West 






Virginia. 5 p.m. 


13 


SAB- sponsored Great American Dance/ 
Dfive-ln, WU patio, dusk. 


26 Theatre auditions for Atlas's Clgor. 






Protest, and Haney. VfT, theatre majors, 28 


Theatre presents The Rivals. WT, 


12:30 p,m,: general pumic.1:30 p.m. 




B p.m.; also Sept. 29. Oct. 4, 5, and 6. 


Scripts available In theatre department 




For information, call the box office. 


oftice; S5 deposit required. Fall season 




6555. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Augusr 22. 2001 



Sports 



Got Hope? 2001 Soccer Showcase preview 



Page 10 THE COMMUNICATOR 



There are limes in soofl 
when eilrodirury things hap- 
pen. Il h3j&gt;- 



Olvmpics in 
Lake Placid, 
New York, Ihc 
Uniird Stales 






as Al Michcals so elcquantly put 
il. No one gave them a chance. 
and yel in the end Ihcy were 
weanng gold. 

These things unile people- 
In this case not Just a tew people- 
but an entire country. Yet, so 
often Ihese things happen, and 
nobody stops to lake notice. 
Nobody bothers lo look and 
appreciate these achivemenis 
thai the athleic has made. 

Usually the athlete plays (or 
a Icam that represents somc- 
Ihlng, either the country, a stale, 
a cily or even all ihc way down 
lo Inc Utile League baseball 
Icam thai represents the local 
grocery slore. Wclher Ihc ath- 
letes are representing you 
because they love your city or 
because they jusl want the 
money, they still represent you. 
These Ihinjp in sports happen on 
many different levels-let me give 
you a few examples. 

When Jackie Robinson 
made his Major League baseball 
debul with the Brooklyn 
Dodgers, he wasn't just repre- 
senting Brooklyn, but the black 
commurily, showing everybody 
that he could play this game. 
Robiruon wen I through some 
lough limes, to put it mildly, on 
the field. J-le was thrown at, put 
down verbally and physically, 
spil on, kicked by sharp spikes, 
and the list goes on, and yet he 
pcrsivcred. 

He hung in there because of 
those he represented. Nobody 
could have expeclcd Ihe impact 
thai Jackie Robinson would 
have, but he moved a nation of 
people, and finally made bas«- 
.-ball'Amehciils Pastime. 

' just a ftfW^'wecks ago, when 
down by 12 runs with 3 iruiings 
to go Ihe Cleveland Indians 
staged an amazing comeback. 
They scored 3 runs in Ihe 7th 
ii\ning, 4 runs in Ihc 8lh inning, 
and 5 runs in 9lh irming, sending 
Ihe game to culra irmings where 
they won the game in the lllh. 

Now, does Ihis compare to 
Robitison? No. absolulley not, 
but for one night, the city of 
Cleveland was united. They 
talked lo each other about a mir- 
acle comeback Ihe likes of which 
baseball hadn't seen in over 70 



happen in college as well, and 
you don't have lo look any fur- 
ther back then lost year's NCAA 
basketball loumamenl. When 
an outmaruied, oulsized and 
oulskilled Kent State team came 
back from a doublcKJigit defecit 
lo beat Ihe red-hot Indiana 
Hoosiers. How did Ihey win the 
game? Because they had hope. 

In fact, all of these athletes 
which I've wrote about had 
hope. In all these iiislances, laiu 
just like you and me were affect- 
ed, maybe just for a short time, 
but they were aifccled. You 
watch l.v. and you see these fans 
rush the floor and celebrate a 
victory with their learn, and 
think It must be great lo be there. 
I would encourage you not to 
miss the opprolunily lo be there. 

This year, our men's basket- 
.ball Icam plays both Michigan 
and Michigan Slate, two power- 
house college teams, yet I'm 
confident we will win. 

has had a rough go of it ihe last 
couple of years, but I beleive 
they can go undeafeled. How 
can I (eel this way you ask? 
Simple: I've got hope. 



fon Tedeis &amp; Adam Speith 

Well, here we are again. A 
chance lo see some of the best 
college soccer teams in the coun- 
try. TTiis year's Soccer Showcase 
appears to be one filled with 
Kreat teams. There's Indiana. 
■-.■ulh Carolina, Noire Dame. 
Wi&gt;5l Virginia. Michigan, 
} L-niucky, l/AB and of course, 
Il'f^V. Many of these teams are 
rjnked in Ihc lution's Top 25 
.md are looking for a good exhi- 
bition here lo see what their 
chances are for a national cham- 
pionship. We will break down 
these teams as well as what 
games lo walch. Let's start with 
the learns, 

Indiana: 

Who? Indiana comes mto 
Ihis season with big expecta- 
tions and possibly, even bigger 
talent. Indiana Ls Ihc class oflhe 
Big Ten conference and comes 
into this season off another solid 
performance last year, which 
mcludcd a trip lo the soccer final 
four. The Hoosiers are reluming 
nine of eleven starters and have 
a preseason ranking of (M. 

The leader; Head coach 
Jerry Ycagly is in his 291h sea- 
son. Yeagly has taken the 
Hoosiers lo 14 Final Four 



IPFW head coach Terry 
Sicfankiewicz. 

The slar The Hoosiers have 
great talent all over Ihe field, but 
definitely take notice to junior 
forward Pal Noonan. Noonan 
ted Indiana ifl scoring last year 
and is a finalist for the Hermann 
trophy which is given lo the top 
player every year 



Virginia is 
coming off a 

dissappointing 
year where 
they went 4- 
13-1 including 

ence play. 



Morganlown. 
After a solid 
1999 season in 

which the 




The leader Jean Detaski is 
the head coach of the Jaguars. 
5Jie IS the only woman coach in 
the showcase. Il is a tvondcr 
which lUPUl team shows up for 
this same, as Delaski has to be 
searching for some consistence' 

TTie star Tara Latclla leads 
Ihe team with an impressive 33 
points from last season, and 
looks to even have a better sea- 
son this year- 9ie is a real offen- 
sive Ihreal. 

Bottom line: The Jaguars 
should be able to lop IPFW due 
lo their ciperictice in corJerence 



IPFW: 

Who? The Ladydons could 
U.- ttiL' youngest women's soccer 
in Ihe country with an 



t lin. 



India 



South Carol i 

Hoosiers should be a joy for any 

soccer enthusiast lo watch. 

South Carolina: 

Who? South Carolina 
comes into Ihe showcase ranked 
17th in the nation. The 
Gamecocks are a solid soccer 
Icam every year, and this year 
should be no different, despite 
losing their number one goalie 
to Ihc Major League Soccer 
draft. 

The leader The 

Gamecocks are under the direc- 
tion of Head Coach Berson. 
Berson is college soccer's eighth 
winningesi active coach. He has 
taken South Carolma 13 NCAA 
tournaments with two Final 
Four appearances. 

The star: Sophomore for- 
ward Ryan Daley leads this 
team. He was named to the col- 
legesoccer.com p re-season hon- 
orable menlion Ail-American 
team. He had a very impressive 
freshman season by becoming 
the second leading scorer on his 
team by having 10 ^oals and 5 
assists. He should improve on 
those numbers this year. 

Boltom line: South 

Carolina comes into this tourna- 
ment as a ver&gt;' good learn; how- 
ever, a win over fourth-ranked 
Indiana could put them into the 
grcal team category. 

Noln; Dame: 

Who? The Irish are a solid 
'eam from the always lough Big 
East conference, which is home 
to defending National 

Champion, Connecticut. The 
Insh arc picked to finish sixth in 
the Big East, which is not where 
they want lo be. Notre Dame 
will probably use this showcase 
to prove that they are a better 
team then thai. 

The leader: Notre Dame 
has a fresh face al Ihe helm in 
first year coach Bob Clark. Clark 
hails from Slar\fonJ where he 
had a very successful reign as 
the Director of Soccer. 

The star The Irish arc led 
by Erich Brawn. A junior for- 
ward who came lo Notre Dame 
via Germany^ he earned Big East 
Newcomer of the Year in 1999. 
Bratvn also led Notre Dame in 
scoring last season des pile miss- 
ing four games due to injury. 
His European style should bring 
some excitement to the Irish 

Bottom line: A low presea- 
son pick, a new coach, and an 
injury prone star could be disas- 
lerous for the Irish, or they could 
feed on Ihc idea that they are not 
very highly thought of, and 
could turn some heads in this 
showcase. 

V\tsl Virginia; 

Who? The Mountaineers 
are yel another participant from 
the Big East conference. West 



expected, and 

Marco could use last season as a 

motivating factor. 

The Starr Although his 2000 
slats are not that good (a 2,19 
goals against average) goal- 
tender Kyle S warts did post the 
team's only shutout last season, 
Swarts also played in the U3. 
Olympic Sports Festival, and 
should be in lop shape for Ihis 

Bottom line: West Virginia 
lost two great plavcrs in Craig 
Patlon and Abdul Caulker, then 
did nol find anyone to replace 
them. The Mountaineers could 
be the worst learn al this show- 



Michigan: 

Who? It's the second season 
for the University of Michigans 
varsity soccer team, and they are 
testing Iheir skills al the show- 
case. Last yeat Michigan went 6- 
10 in Iheir inaugural season 
which is very r^peclable for a 
first year club. They also fin- 
ished 61h last year in Ihe BigTen. 

The leader Steve Bums is 
the first coach in Michigan's his- 
tory, which coiuisls of two sea- 
sons. Bums is a Wolverine 
through and through, class of 
1989 to be exact. He coached 
Michigan's soccer club for years 
before taking on the varsity 
team. He even won a couple of 
national championships with his 
soccer club, but Ihal was a soccer 
club, and Ihal's much different 
then Division I soccer. 

The stars: Due to being 
such a young team, Michigan 
will rely on their captains, J.J. 
Kem a fifth-year senior and 
sophomore Joe Iding. 

Boltom line: Don't look for 
Michigan to be burning up the 
soccer fields. 

Kentucky: 

Who? The Kentucky 
Wildcats are a team on the rise m 
the Mid American Conference. 
The Cats made their first ever 
NCAA loumamenl for the first 



IPFW 

Who? The host school of 
the Soccer Showcase, IPFW is an 
entremely young team with 17 
underclassman, including 15 
freshman. This showcase ivi II be 
just thai, a showcase for Coach 
Terry Stefankiewiei, who 
should get a good feel for what 
his team can do 

The leader: Coach 
Sicfankiewicz is heading into his 
19th season as soccer coach. He 
has shown much success as 
IPFW 's head coach including a 
1999 Great Lakes Vally 
Conference loumamenl champi- 
onship and an NCAA tourna- 
ment appearance. 

The slan Because of how 
young this Maslodon learn is, all 
the seniors will have to slep up. 
These seniors include Shawn 
Cairer, Chris Kramer, and Pelar 
Ivanccvic. Their leadership will 
be key for Ihis team. 

Boltom line: With such a 
young team and lough games, 
this will be a leaming experience 
for this learn. However, if Ihere 
is a learn ripe for an upset, il 
could be Notre Dame. 

Now for Ihc women 

The women are bringging 
four teams lo this showcase. 
They consist of Indiana, Illinois 
Stale, lUPUI and of course 
IPFW. Ut's break down Ihe 



Kram, both part of that talented 
mid field. 

Bottom Imc: Go and see 
that midfield. They are extreme- 
ly talented, and explosive on 
offer\sc. They could really put 



up St 



.e numbers 



Illinois Stale: 

Who? The Illinois Slate 
Rcdbirds come from the 
Missouri Vally Conference, 
Illinois Slale is a solid Icam from 
that tonlercnce. They were 14-t 
overall and 6-1 in the confer- 
ence. The ledbirds nearly made 
the NCAA loumamenl lasl year. 



but . 



' lost I 



this s 



r last ) 






h a pre-season 
ranking of 23. 

The leader. Kenhickyisled 
by Coach Ian Colliru. Collins not 
only look his Icam to the louma- 
menl last season, but got a win 
over St. Louis University. His 

play has them as the p 
choice to win the MAC. 

The star Junior midfielder 
Chris McDania led Ihe team in 

Eoints last year with 11 and is 
ack lo prove that lasl year was 
not a fluke. 

Bottom line: The Cats have 
lough games agairwl South 
Carolina and UAB, but don't be 
surprised if Kentucky pulls of an 

University of Alabama- 
Birmingham: 

Who? They're better 
known as UAB. but no matter 
how you say il, Alabama- 
Birmingham is a solid team. The 
Blazers are probably Ihe best 
team in Conference LISA, as Ihey 
have a pre-season rank of 19lh in 
the country'. The same ranking 
they finished with last year. 

The leader The Blazers are 
led by head coach Mike Gefman. 
Gefman has led UAB to two 
straight NCAA tournaments 
and has established a solid team. 

The star FlavioMonleiro is 
a junior from Texas. He's a solid 
contributor with good scoring 
ability. He was also the 1999 
Conference USA newcomer of 
the year. 

Bottom line; They are a 
very solid team; however, they 
do play Indiaivi and Kentucky 



Indiana; 

Who? The Hoosiers fin- 
ished last season at 8-9-1. not a 
great record, but Ihey should be 
much improved Ihis season, 
Indiana may have the best mid- 
field in the Big Ten conference, 
and could be a dark horse for a 
coi\fercnce title. 

The leader: Joe Kelly is a 
former All-Amcrican al Indiana, 
and played under coaching 

E;al Jerry Ycagly, Kelly has the 
owledge that he got from 
Coach Yeagly, and has Iransporl- 
cd it into the women's Icam. He 
has taken Ihe Hoosiers to two 
NCAA loumamenl births. 

The star Indiana has two 
in All-Big Ten honorces. Emily 
Holtz and leading scorer Kelly 



Southwest Missouri State 
knocked them out. 

The Leader Pete Kowall is 
the head coach, and is ready to 
lead the Redbirds lo another 
impressive season. He had 
Illinois Slale on the verge of the 
NCAA loumamenl last year and 
there is no reason lo Ihlnk he 
can'l gel them there Ihis year. 

The Star Annie Way land U 
probably Ihe besi player in the 
conference. Wayland averagei 



Bottom line; Illinois Stale 
will be taking on a tough 
Indiana Icam, and that should 
be a fun game lo walch with a 
lot of offense. 

lUPUl: 

Who? The lUPUI Jaguars 
are coming of an 8-11-1 season 
that wasn't as dissap pointing as 
it sounds. Tliey did go 3-2 in the 
Mid Continent Conference, 
They had a season of ups and 
downs last year filled with win- 
ning streaks and losing sireaks. 



.i.-ini; 15 underclassmi 
rosier that only has 18 pbyers! 
This will no doubt be a reaming 
e&gt;;penence for IPFW. However, 
a win over lUPUI could put 
such a young icam in the nght 
mindset going into the season. 

The leader: Coach Terry 
SI ef ankle wic7 is also Ihe head 
coach of Ihe men's team and will 
have his hands full with those 
two young groups. 

Stefan kictvicz should gel this 
young Icam going on the right 
track and I believe Ihcy \viU put 
up a good showing for the 

The Star: Forget about sen- 
ior leadership, how about some 
junior leadership? Andrea 
CappclM. Olivia Dukta. and 
Molly Coffey will have lo lead 
this learn. Because the players 
are so young, the juniors will 
have to keep the younger play- 
ers on an even keel, not letting 
the highs get lo high nor Ihc ' 
lows nol getting to low. 

Bottom line: Yes. they're 
young, but there is talent on this 
leam. They probably won't beat 
lUPUl, but If they can pull of the 
upset, it could really get this 
Icam pointed in the right dircc- 

Gamcs lo watch: 

1.) IPFW vs Noire Dame- If 
there is a leam that could be ripe 
for an upset it could be Ihc Irish. 
Coming off a dissappointing 
season Ihc Irish may nol have 
fully recovered. Their slar Erich 
Braivn Is coming off an Injury 
plagued season, and may nol be 
100%. 

2.) Indiana vs. South 
Carolina- The number four 
ranked team vs'. Ihe number 16 
Icam in Ihe country should 
make lor a classic match, and is 
probably 
Ihc best game of the showcase. 

3,) IPFW vs. lUPUI- Tills 
could turn into a good game, 
and could ignite a great rivalry 
for years lo come, which would 
be great for both schoots- 



How does the 

party animal 

in class get B's? 







QuickStudy. 



CU tiKU MAEHOUSE CCXm 



Fuiohj/Doy Beds 
E/iiCJtarvncm Cemera 



Presenting dofni fitmitiire that leaves you money for tuition. 






"Welcome Back" 
STRESS 

eoSTEi 
O'AY 

Tuesday, August 28, 20dl 
IPFW Kettler Hall, Lower Level 
11:30 am- 1:30 pm 

• FREE Stress Inventory! 

• FREE Stress Balloons! 

• FREE Neck, Back, and Shoulder Massages 

• FREE Information- Display Booths Staffed 
by Health Professionals 

• FREE Low Stress Refreshments 

Boost energy, build strength, and 
brighten life with stress solutions! 



Sponsored by IPFW Personal Counseling, IPFW Wellness, 

IPFW/ Parkview Hcaltli and Wellness Clinic, IPFW Campus Ministry, 

and IPFW Department of Athletics, recreation, and Intramural Sports. 

For more information call 481-5748 



&gt; IPFW ' 



PARKVIEW 
HEALTH SYSTEM 



K 




Are you insterested in helping 

with re-construction of The 

CommunicatorP 

Currently we are updating 

our editorial practices and 

are seeking input from our 

readers. 

Please ioin us Thursday, August 23rd 
@ 1 p.m. in Walb 215 to share your 
comments, critiques, suggestions, 
and opinions regarding the appear- 
ance and content of this publicaHon. 

Please call or leave a uolcemall at: 481-6584 to 




-Heidi Saliba, Editor 



J 



fearless 
banking 



WELLS 
FARGO 



The Next Stage* 




Now that you're ready to go it alone with banking, check out the convenient 
Student Combo"" Package. It backs you up with a range of worry-free 
banking services that are easy to use. Stop by your nearest 
Wells Fargo location today. 



August 22. 2001 



Sports 



Page 12 THE COMMUNICATOR 



10 questions with.. .soccer coach 
Terry Stefankiewicz 



have a Unigh Divisi 
what are your teeUngfi 



Stef; Well we open wiih Noire 
Dame, Wcsl Virginia. California, 
and California- Irvine, which an; 
all Ihrec really tough leant.',. Now 
thai we're Division I, they're all 
going to be lough. We have a very 
young learn and we have to eel 
(ullcr each week. I Ihink 



play smart and hard, 
hard Icam lo play agai 
anxious lo sec. 

2.)Communicaton You i 
Ihal you're a young leai 
thai going loaffeel youi 



we're laking a ruk wiih three for- sforicr?. We moved Shaona lo the 
wards- Hopefully, we'll surprise bact She's a real big, strong girl- 
some people, I ihulk learns will She came in great shape this )-ear 
u seem lo think we'll be more defensive, but and she's a real leader uilhc back. 
I schedule, we're going to be jusi the oppo- We'll count on Knshn lo score 
site. Il will be somewhat eidling. goals Katie Laage has been voted 
Our posscssioivs (during scrim- as a third captain of the learn, 
mage) have been good and our She's a sophomore from Ohio. 
attack has been good. We just She's a leader on the field because 
need to put Ihe ball in the net. she makes proper runs, plays 
defense, and a real good technical 
6.)Communicalor Having both player. Bui all o( the girls retum- 
VQung men's and women's teams, ing, Jcruia Kelley. Olivia Dukia, 
how important is it for them lo Andrea Cappelli. Maureen 
haveanevenkcel— no! logel loo Kelsay, all those girls dedicated 
low wllh the lows and loo high themselves off-season lo come 
with the highs? back in shape. 1 really eiipecl 
good things. And we're hoping to 
Slcl^ Well [hat goes with malurily. go to Kentucky We play two D-l 
illoncd I thirvk, my assistant Mike Harper schools in Kentucky the opening 
How is and I, we said we're going lo pro- weekend. We're hoping la get two 
ason? fcssionalixe ourselves so that if wins and I think we can- T really 
■■'" ''"■' keel, Ihen the kids expect good things this season 



ell be a 



»m folic 



I. We ai 



licing (as coaches) &lt; 



n prac- (rom Ihe girls 



r halflur 






I, then V, 



adjusi with Ihal and be 
successful. Some of Ihe 
besi players in the Gieal 
Lakes Valley Conference 
were freshmen, 

3,)Communicalor From 
where do you draw 
most of your players 

Slef: Well, we've been 

Suing Ihe 

assachusells connec- 
tion, both men and 
woman. Every year we 
get at least one or Iwo 



"We had 1000 people at every 
game who were yelling and 
screaming. The guys were 
really pumped. When you 
have no fans, where is the 
advantage of being home or 
away?" 

•soccer coach Terry Stefankiewicz 



d SUp- 

m in the 
. How 



., this L 



the 



'ay 1 



S.jCommunicator: 
port can really move 

important 

crowd to come oui and 

support the Doru? 

Stef: Two years ago 
being Great Lakes 
Valley Conference 

Champions and NCAA 
Regional Champions, 
we had 1,000 people at 
every game who were 
yelling and screaming. 
The guys were really 
pumped. When you 
nave no fans, where is 
Ihe advantage of being 
home or away? The 
crowd helps that adren- 
aline flow. [ think so many of our 
itudenls don't even realize where 



going I 

so. we'll see, I think it starts with Ihe gomes are played- A few home 

iching staff, then the older games will be night games this 

:. then the Ireshmcn follow year, so the students can come out 

sun. and see us. The showcase saw 
5,0(X) people last year. It's free for 

7.) Communicator; Can you name our shidcnts. They need to gel 

some of vour impact players, both out there. Il'snol just soccer... it's 

men and women? fun. There's an aluiruii lent with 
free food and a cash bar (for alco- 

(rom Kansas, hoi). Four out of the eight men's 

sweeper. He's the fastest learns coming are nationally 

I really look forward lo guy on the field without a doubl, rarOied (Indiaiu, South Carolina, 

1 winning season. Re was the Junior College Player Alabama-Birmingham, and 

of the Year, and we were really Kentucky), 
lucky to gel him, Chris Kramer '- 



the women's team, what's your play 
outlook on them? suit, 

Stef: Well the women arc mall 
maturing. We don't have any ser 
iors but we've got three juiuois. 
good rccruiling class and a group 



Stef: Well It's funny. 



coUe- 



r second leading 
scorer in Ihe history of Ihe school, 
but he's back lo defense this year 
to gain maturity, Nick Pendleton, 
another senior captain, is also on 
defense. So. what we did is say, 
"Guys, in order (or i 



9.)Communlcalor: Kentucky 

looks really strong and arc team 
on the rise, aren't they? 

Slef: They really are. They play 
a real exciting brand of soccer. 
It's going lo be great! 



giale leams play a 4-4-2), The have lo play deferue fii 

_.i . :_ , ._i.i . :. . - put the older guys in the defense 10,)Communicator; last qi 



advantage 

Eul enough pmssure on their full- and the younger ones allackini 

pcks with our three fonvards Peter Hachaj, our Polish goaT- 

thcn it lakes some of the pressure keeper, he's a freshman but he's 

off of our backs and they have definilely an impact player, 

more lime lo read it. It has been Coalkceping is Ihe mosl crucial 

working really well in our scrim- posilion on the field and wc feel 

mages. 2. The other thing is thai really lucky to have hi 



e need to have some scoring 
punch, so with an extra player up 
there it makes it a lillle more diffi- 
cult lor the other team to defend 
us. Even though we're young. 



On the 
Shacina ' Mersey 

Massachusetts and 
MacDonald also 

Massachusetts, are our 



side. 



coach... What 
strangest goal you've ever seen 

Stef; I have seen a lot of weird 
ones but I can tell you one. We 
were playing at Purdue, many 
years ago, and our goalkeeper 
caught Ihe ball on Ihe goal line 
and turned to throw 11, and put 
it in Ihe his own goal. 



THE YMCA of Greater Ft. Wayne is looking for energetic 
part time staff for the following positions: 
■ Daytime antl rental lifeguards 
• Weekend Fitness Team 
Musi be Icain orienled, responsible, excelleni humati relaiion skills and certified in appropri- 
ate areas. This is a grtal opporluniiy lo work in a fun and friendly environment. To join our 

team, please apply within or send resume to: 
Central Branch YMCA • Attn: Heidi Wegener • 1020 Barr SL ■ Ft Wayne.IN 46802 



Soccer: The future of American sports? 



The 



game? 




world's mosl popular 

ol in this country, any- 

, not yet. Soccer, the peo- 
ple's game, has never been America's 
game. Behind basketball, football, 
hockey, and of course America's 
National Pastime baseball, soccer has 
recently reached a respectable status 
among tfiis country's sporting enlhu- 

Major League Soccer has fiad a 
slow but successful start since this 
nation hosled the World Cup in 1994, 
There is now a women's professional league 
thai seems lo tie hitting popular strides along gamed -_, . 
with the WNBA. And who could forget the Ine game is 
memorable moment of Brandi Chaslain npping invented our 
off her jersey aller scormg Ihe winning penalty 
shot to win the 1999 Women's World Cup. I'm 
sure thai many Amcncan men strangely dis- 
covered a newfound desire lo walch women's 
soccer They probably didn I see that coming' 

But that's Just it..Jio one did. It's a beauti- 
ful game (literally and figuratively speaking, of 
course). But there is only one generation of 
Americans thai truly believe that... the children. 
Soccer is by far the mosl popular spotl among childi 
America's youth. In fact, I even saw a nightly 



news special that youth mvotvement in soccer 
was surpassing of all Ihmgs. basetwill. More and 
moTv youth leagues and summer camps ai« 
offering soccer due to its surgij\g 
popularity. For both boys and girls, 
the game is (un and chailenguig (but 
not lo the pouii ol (nistratmg). The 
runriing keeps I hem physically fit 
and the parents don't have to tate 
oul a 2i\a mortgage (or their kids lo 
play. Do you know how much it is for 
your children to play hockey these 
dJ days? Well let's gust say il should be 
^illegal- 

So why has it taken so long for 
America to realize what Ihe rest of 
Ihe world has (or lOO'sof &gt;Tats?That 
lid be a number ol reasons. I guess. We 
independence from a land where 
— Tommon as warm lager. We 
great games and thought that 
^vas enough. We've always cor\sidered our- 
selves tougher than subjecting our time to 
medium contact sports. And rinally..v 



just want lo be different. This country prides 
itself o( independence, and adoplmg the 
Aiorld's game would almost be sacnleeious. But 
we can't remain stubborn lor too long. The 
ivorld is becoming mote global with the United 
Stales leading the way. I guess we have the 
lo Ihank for that. 



Soccer Showcase Schedule 
2001 



Fiday August 24th 

lUPUI vs. IPFW (W) 3 p.m. 

Indiana vs. Illinois Stale (W) 5:30p.m. 

Indiana vs. South Carolina 8p,m. 

Saturday August 25th 

West Virginia vs. Michigan 12 noon 

South Carolina vs. Kentucky..,.. 2 :30p.m. 

Indiana vs. UAB 5 p.m. 

Notre Dame vs. IPFW. 7:30p.m. 



Suday August 26th 

Kentucky vs.UAB 12:30p.in. 

Michigan vs. Notre Dame 2:30p.m. 

IPFW vs. West Virgina 5 p.m. 

Key teams to watch 

Indiana South Carolina 

A la ba m a B irmingha m Kentucky 

IPFW 

Key players tn walrh 
Peter Hachaj IPFW 

Pat Noonan Indiana 

Erich Brawn Notre Dame 

Ryan Daley South Carolina 

Annie Wayland Southwest MissouriSt. 




^M^ ^^rl^ 


WANTED: 

Car Pool from Dekalb 
Co.CalU6037or837-4l5d 



420-1111 




PERSONAL &amp; 
COMMERCIAL 
SELF-STORAGE 



COLISEUM 
SELF STORAGE 



• HEATED &amp; AIR CONDITIONED UNITS 

• 24 HOUR SECURED ACCESS 
(7 DAYS A WEEK) 

• VIDEO SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS 

• ON SITE LIVE-IN &gt;UNAGER 

1121 N. Coliseum Blvd. Ft Wayne, IN 46805 
e-mail as at: colTseumssfaicin-bal.com 



HEALTH 
and WELLNESS 
CLINIC , 
WALB 234 



SERVICES/TREATMENT PROVIDED FOR: 



Colds 


PAP Exams 


Asthma 


Bronchitis 


Birth Control 


Diabetes 


Sinusitis 


STDs 


Orthopedic 


Sore Throats 


Depression 


Hypertension 


Ear Problems 


Fatigue 


Flu Shols 


Headaches 


Viral infections 


Allergy 


UTIs 


Bums 


Injections 


Lacerations 


Acne 


Immunizations 




HOURS 



Monday-Thursday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Friday 8 a.m. to Noon 

IPFW and Parkview Occupational Health- 
Partners in Health and Wellness 



f IPFW % 



PARKVIEW 
HEALTH SYSTEM 



■uiiaiiiyiiijjiiiniiwBiiBimBWir 



