WEDNESDAY, 
October 17, 2001 



INSIDE: 

The 



Opcn-mindedness vs. Wellness Scrus focusc n 
Close-mindedness, p. 2 healthy living, p. 8 



The VViiglcy experience. Chubby Chcckir still 

, p. 7 doing The Ttvist.' p i 



News 



W COMMUNICATO 



Volume 36, Issue 8 



Indiana University — Purdue University Fort Wayne 




News Briefs 

Omnibus Lecture Series to 
host Cornel West Oct. 25 



Thursday. Ocl. 25, 

Ballroom at 7:30 p.ir 

One of the llrsl 

Univcreily lo (ecciV 



I Ihf IVjIb Sludcnl Uni. 




black scholars al Harvard 
. Ihc academic title o( proles- 
5or, Ihe school's highest faculty 
post. West leaches Alro- 
Ainerican sludies and philoso- 
phy oF religion. 

Among Ihc 15 books West 
has wrillun are "The American 
Evasion ol Philosophy," "lews 
and Blacks," ' Tlic Future ol Ihe 
Race" and "Restoring Hope." 

"The War Against 
Parunls," co-wrillcn with Sylvia 
Ann Hewlcll wilh whom he co- 
chairs, Ihe National Parenling 
AssDCialion's Task Force on 
Parent Empowermcnl. was published In April 



"The Future ol American Proen 
len wilh Roberto Uncer, leacheshow Ihe growing 

divisions in Uniled Stales' society fosler the 
despair and dislmst thai undermine our democral- 

The Omnibus Lcclun; Scries is funded by Ihe 
English. Bonier, Milchcll Foundalion. Media spon- 
sors ore WflNI 89.1 and NewsChannel 15. 

ForaddiLionalinformalion. call2l9-48l-6S08. 

United Sexualities to host 
Drag Show Oct. 28 

Uniled Sovualities will host a Crag Show on 
Sunday. Oct. 28. in Ihe Walb Sludenl Union 
Ballroom from 6-9 p.m. Light refreshments will be 
available. 

Advance lickcls are SS and S7 al Ihe door. The 
show is open to Ihe public. 
■ Kor information or lickels, call 219-48M179. 

Poetry readings to explore 
war, peace, terrorism 

Karen 1 [aquisli. associate faculty in English and 
Linguistics at IPFW. will present "Poetry 
Readings" al Salutdoy Sessions al Borders on Oct. 
20. al 1 p.m. 

Jaquish ivill read from a manuscript she is 
working on. She tvill also read a few poems she has 
wrillen in Ihe lasl few monlhs. 

In addition, she will quole from Ihe writings of 
her sludenls regarding Ihe ongoing Ihreal of ter- 
rorism, as well as some well-&amp;own works about 
tvar and peace. 

Following her readings, Jaquish will answer 
qucslions aboiil her ivriling, as well as the writing 
process in general. 

CSSAC annual blood drive 
to be held Oct. 30 

The CSSAC annual blood drive al IPFW is Ocl. 
30 in Ihc Walb Sludcnt Union Dallnjom from 9:30 
a.m. lo 3:30 p.m. lis goal is 50 pints. 

Any healthy person, 18 years ol age and older, 
may donate blood. 11 is recommended thai 
donors avoid caffeine and thai Ihcy eal a healthy 
breaklast Ihe day Ihey .ire lo donate. 

The Fori Wayne region of the Red Cross 
■"" ' "ilood perday. 
II 219^81-5799. 



Weather 



Today 

Parlly Cloudy 
High: 48 
Low: 35 

Thursday 
Partly Cloudy 
High: 62 

Low: 44 

Friday 

Partly Cloudy 
High: 64 



--r,r 



Index 

Opinions 2 

Features 3 

Chubby Checker 4,5 

Sports 7 

News 8 



ECET mourns loss of professor 



tribulfd ty Paul Un. ECET" J 



Ronald C. Ewcry. former chairman of Ihe elec- 

^ Irical and compuler engineer- 

ng and technology departmcnl 

11 IPFW, died Thursday. Ocl 4. 

Emery, 70, had been at 

g IPFW for 35 years. He headed 

Ihe electrical and compuler 

engineering technology dcparl- 

I menl from 1983 lo 1995. Since 

l'*95. he was a professor and 

iLssodale de.tn of Ihe depart- 



passing of Ron Emer)'." Michael 
WarLell. IPFIV chancellor said. "He cared aboul 
students and collcaeues in ways Ihal brightened 
Iheir outlook and helped them succeed. 1 will 
especially mins his wormlh and good humor." 

"Il was a great loss lo Ihe deparlmenl. Ihc 
School of Engineering, Technology and Compuler 
Science and lo IPFW," said Paul Lin, chairman of 
ECET. "He was a dedicated, lircless professor. I 



will rr 




1 Emery was truly a teacher's leacher," said 
Gary Sleflen. visiling assislanl professor in Ihc 
ECET deparlmenl. "No mailer where he was at in 
his career here al IPFW, Ihe sludenl always came 
firel. Even when he served as acting dean of Ihc 
school, he »vould never lei Ihe job distance him 
from the sludenl body. 

"His leaching went beyond just 
the sludenls in his class," Slelfcn "It was a great ki^ 
added. 'He was a. mentor lor so to the departnicnl 



'Ron w.is such a mcnlot lo me," said Tom 
Uivertthella, ECET prxifessor, "I h.ive known him 
since T ivas an ossociale faculty member ol the 
dcparlmcnt from 1983 to I9S6. He was always 
there lo help nie and I am convinced lhal 1 (uould' 
nol be a professor lod.iy \vilhoul Ihe help of Ron 

"Rim provtili-il ~.n;r nniTcr! ,uul RUidoncv lo 
■ '.h .L~u.-li,i- sh„l,.nls,- said Hal 

.TK .1--&gt;«..ilr (.In(,--.,.r ol ECET. 






n.n 



being involved wilh the sludenls, dedicated, tirelt- 

remember Ron telling me one lime, him. 

■Don-1 sweal Ihc small slulf and _p„„; i_iii, clwirmm Keele. 

when Ihc big stuff arrives, il won 1 ri-pT- Engin 

seem that big.' Because of this type ^Ltl Compuler Science. 

of thinking he always came across so "TTiere is a heaviness for us this 

cool and collected. One of Ihe reasons he did his week and il is hard lo pul into wonJs wliat Ron 

jobso well was ihal he believed in Ihe people who meanl lo many of us," said Jay Thayer, .isslslanl 

worked for him. He once said, 'Sland back and let director ol developmcnl for IPFW. 

others do their jobs because Ihey know how ■- -■- 

Iheir job besl.'" 



.Ir.in s iilliM' I' Klin's music — 

illy 11.111 lo Ihe Huef .ind the 

Purdue Fight Sons,'" said Olann 

^relary of Ihc School of 

fring. Technology 



See Emery, p. 8 



Wellness Clinic offering 
flu shots Oct. 31, Nov. 1 



By Brandon S 



;, Re pork 



Influenza, or "Ihe flu" as il is commonly 
known, is a virus lhal spreads from person lo per- 
son through Ihe nose or throat, ^fo5l often, people 
are affeclcd by Ihe disease for jusl a few days, but 
Ihc condition can worsen, polenlially leading (o 
hospilalizalion. Influenza is al its peak from 
November through April each year. 

People who have the flu generally experience 
fevers, chills, sore Ihioals. coughs and a general- 

The stomach flu can also cause vomiting, diar- 
rhea and abdominal cramps. 

On Ocl. 31 and Nov, 1, Ihe IPFW/Parkvlew- 
Heallh and Wellness Clinic will coordinate Ihe 
adminislralicin of flu vaccines lo IPFW employees, 
retirees, students and the general public for two 

On Ocl. 31, flu shots will be administered only 
to IPFW employees, retirees and Iheir spouses. 
The shols are free ol charge through financial sup- 
port from Ihe Pundue Worklife Program. 

On Nov. 1, Ihe vaccines will be available lo 
IPFW sludenls and Ihe general public for a fee of 
Sll. 

Judy Tillapaugh. IPRV Wellness coordinalot 
since 1995, said the restriction on Ocl. 31 is "some- 
thing new this year, and this way we can more eas- 
ily provide shols lo people who lend lo be more at 

Tillapaugh said those who would oualify as 
being "al risk" are adults over 50 years old — espe- 
cially those who are managing a health condition 
siichasdiabcles. heart or lung disease, since those 
wilh chronic ailments have weaker immune sys- 



adulls age 50 and older may have a hi 
fighting off Ihe disease and Ihc complici 
arise from a weakened immune sysli" 



Ihe human body Ic 
slarl to build up a 
resistance to Ihe 
virus. T h e 

Cenlcrs lor Disease 
Control and 

Prevention said of the 



Tliough you can- 
not gel Ihc flu from 
Ihe flu shot, some 
side effects such as 



lally being treated 

m 



IPFW employee;, 

retirees and their 

spouses can get vac 

cinations free of 

charge on Oct. 31, 

bcltvccn 10 a.m. an 

4 p.m. in Walb Union 

Room 234. 
All others interested 
cati gel shots on Nov. 
I from 4-8 p.m. The 
cost is Sll. 



where Ihe injeclion 

was given, fever and 

aches might occur. If 

side cffccis arc going 

lo develop, il will happen shortly after the shot is 

given and will last 1-2 days. 

All vaccinations will lake place on Ihc second 
floor of Ihe Walb Sludenl Union. 

On Ocl. 31, the shols will be given from 10 a.m. 
lo 4p.m. and on Nov. I from 4-8 p.m. 

The IPFW nursing department will be on hand 

Tillapaugh said approximately six nurses will 
be on hand lo administer vaccinations. She added 
lhal gelling Ihe shot is a quick process. 



Reading Corp 
seeks tutors 



Research has delcrmincd Ih.il il children have 
nol learned lo read by Ihe second grade, Ihey will 
be acadcmicolly challenged lor much o( their 

In order locombal illileracvand loprcvenl stu- 
dents from cxpcriencingacademicdiflicullies, Ihe 
Indiana Reading Corp has helped young students 
learn lo read bv |&lt;aiiing them up with vohinleera 

The program has iHvnal IPFWhirlhepasI live 
years. This year 11 i.^ under the new direction of 
coordinalor Debera Bragg, who jo.iicd the IRC in 
.ugusl. 
"Our goal IS to promote literacy," Dragg said. 
The IRC has two locallons in Fori Wayne- The 



vohmlcem to help young sliidenLs improve their 
reading skills, Bragg said. 

She e.*plaincd lhal Ihc IRC program sends vol- 
unteers lo twoschoob^ in Ihc area. Forest Park and 
Meadowbrook Elementary Shambaugh 
Elementary send.i sludenls lo Ihc campus for 
luloring, Dragg said. 

The students in need ol luloring "jusi need 
practice reading," according lu Uragg. She 
explained lhal teachers delcnnine which sludenls 
require lulors. "They do nol have learning dis- 
abilllies." she said. 

Because Ihey have Insuble reading, Ihc stu- 
dents "usually have a low confidence level 
because Ihey have nol been able lo achieve what 
Ihey should. Tliey are oflcnone level behind Iheir 
peers in reading ability." 

The volunteer sessions, which arc usually 
twice a week, lasl about an hour. During Ihe ses- 
sions, volunteers work onc-on-onc wilh slu- 
See IRC, p. 8 



Prof details chilling Andean rituals 



By Todd Har 

Ch'er each of the last 
Suiter, associate professor of anthropology al 
IPFW. has been traveling lo Peru and norlriem 
Chile in South America as part ol his field research 
work on prehistoric Andean peoples. 

During these escursions, he has nol only gath- 
ered enough informalion lo forivard several origi' 
nal theories aboul bfe in ancient South America, 
but he has also come acn^s some ol what he 
describes as "gruesome practices and riluals." 

Sutler spent much of his ijcl. 13 "Lunch wilh an 
IPFW Scientisl" lecture al Science Central in Fort 
Wayne describing such practices as the ritualistic 
"slicing and dicing" and dismembering of sacrifi- 
cial viclims practiced by Ihe Moche and Inka cul- 
lurcs focused on in his area of study. 

He also detailed Ihc murruniitcalion of Ihe 
Chinchorro society in South America. 

He said Ihe Moche, a maritime fishing society 
who lived on the coastal areas of Peru and north- 
em Chile during the first six centuries A.D., 
believed Ihcy had lo sacrifice human and animal 
vicliins in order lo keep the world in balance. 

"Human sacrillces weren't fiequenl," Sutler 
said. "They were a significant event. Only the 
most important events called (or human sacri- 
fices." He said only aboul 120 sacrificial remains 
had been found in the entire Moche area. 

He explained lhal many of the uncovered sacri- 
ficial remains al a Moche temple knoivn as Huaca 
de la Luna, dated lo a period in Ihc Moche history 
whAi a known El Nino season plagued the area. 
Suiter believes Ihe Moche may have made a mas- 
sive sacrifice lo Iry to gel Iheir gods lo end the El 

Viclims at Huaca de la Luna were "filleted" and 
dismembered and then strewn aboul. Suiter said. 
Archeological digs in the area tiavc uncovered two 
locations where more Ihan 100 human skeletons 
have been found. Sutler said many of Ihe skcte- 



Mosl of Ihe skeletal remains belong to males 
between the age of IS and 45. Sullcr believed the 
viclims were most likely captured warriors or ene- 
mies of Ihc Moche- 

The Moche. Sutter said, are also renowned for 
Iheir ceramic vessels which contained detailed 
and lifelike portraits of human and animal faces 
and events. 

"In my opinion, it's Ihe highesl art in the 
Andes." he said. 

Although Sullcr docs nol directly research 
Inkan sacrificial remains, he incorporated resulLs 
and findings well-known in Ihe archeological 
community on the group in his lecture. 

He saicl Ihe Inka primarily sacrificed children 
and youngadulls.Thevictims typically were from 
areas Ihe Inka had conquered. He said the Inka 
look victims from theirsubjectsasa way of enforc- 
ing their authority over Ihem and as a way ol 
frightening Ihcm. 

The victims weiE often taken to Ihe highesl 

Sacrificeis got the victims drunk on chicha beer 
and then hil Ihem over Ihc head wilh slone maces 
and wooden clubs or strangled Ihcm. 

■TTie Inka would play il up as an honor lo be 
sacnhced." he said. He said they used children ss 
viclims because they were the 'purest' members of 

The Inka. like the Moche. sacrificed victims in 
part lo appease their gods. 

Man&gt;' sacrificial rituals still go on in the Andes 
today, Sutter said. Although human sacrifices are 
no longer practiced, animal sacrifices are slill com- 



nify iheir dead. 

See Andean, p. 8 




Photo by Todd Hamm. Ne^s Editor 
Richard Sutter, IPFW associate profes- 
sor of anthropology, holds a replica of 
a 10, 00 O-y ear-old Chinchorro mummy- 
Sutter, who researches the ancient 
South American culture, presented a 
lecture on their mummification prac- 
tices and the sacrificial practices of the 
Moche and Inka societies al Science 
Central on Ocl. 13. 



Page 2 TTie Communicator 



Opinions 



Oeiobcr 17, 2001 




Anthrax facts: 

• Anthrax is a bacteria, most com- 
monly occurring in animals such 
as cattle, sheep, goats and camels. 
" It is very rare to find infected 
animals in the United States. 

• Twenty percent of untreated 
cases of the skin form of anthrax 
result m death. 

• The skin form is dormant, mean- 
ing that in order to be infected 
with anthrax, you must have a cut. 

• Inhalation anthrax is usually 
fatal. 

■ Intestinal anthrax is fatal 
bet^v■een 25 and 60 percent of the 
time. 

• Direct person-lo- person spread 
of anthrax is highly unlikely. It is 
not contagious. 

■ An anthrax vaccine is reported to 
be 93 percent effective . 



Computer labs and gamers don't mix 



"Compulcr» an lo be used 
for tasks related lo your universily 
rcsponsib ill lies." 

This nollce is posted in all 
computer labs on campus. 
Howt'vcr, like many posting, il 
lacks one ncccssily: cn/oicemcnl. 

Ljsl week I enlerod a com- 
pulcr lab and as I spoiled some- 
one leaving, I quickly grabbed llie 
only empty chair in the tab. 
Minules laler, Lhe lechnician came 
oul at his small room in the back 
and announced thai anyone not 
working on univeisity-relalcd 
projecLs needed lo leave, a_s Iwo 
women awailed computers. I saw 

The technician relumed to 
his ofllee wilhoul another word, I 

Juickly finished emailing my pro- 
;ssar, wondering if Ihis tell under 
(he dcseriplion of being related lo 
university ivork, and exited the 
tab. On my way out, I noticed one 
student was on pogo.com, a iveb- 
site thai olicrs various casino 
games and the like. This, I am 

Voices on 



prelty sure. is only 

univcrsily-relalcd in Ihe Fact that 
he was on university property 
while playing hus game. 



lai 

many of you •" 

enlercd the ■ 

computer labs : 
only to find I 



Staff 
Editorial 



laken : 

Aggravated, i 

many head off 

lo find another lab. tn actuali 
should not have to; many i 
labs are playing games or ii 



chal 



The inciden) i referred to 

happened in I he Science Building. 
However, the problem is much 
man prevalenl in other labs. VValb 
in particular This new lab is one 
of Ihe nicesl on campus and near- 
ly always packed. 

There are some who frequent 
Ihis lab lo play games, lalher Ihan 
tend lo Iheir "universily responsi- 



bilities." I venture lo say that on 
any given day, al any given hour 
that Walb is open, these "gamers" 
as they are called can be found in 
the back rows of the lab. 

One early morning before 
class, 1 went to Ihe lab and found 
it nearly emply, except ol course, 
for Ihe row of gamers." 

It makes complete sense lo 
me. as it should to olhers, that we 
who pay our tuition and fees 
should have 

street. Unfortunately this isn't 
always the case. Some of these 
"gamers" aren't even IPFW stu- 
denLs; they just come to feed on 
our speedy internet connection. 

This has prompted new 
nolices that now sit on lop of each 
monitor in Ihe Walb lab. "Shhh! 
Please l^e considerate of others. If 
your behavior is disruptive you 
may tw asked to show your slU' 
dent ID." 



of us have work to do. but they arc 
often loud and disruptive. Often, 
the lab does nol provide a con- 



Cavtp 



US 



The Communicator asked 
students on campus, "Are 
you at all scared of the threat 
of biological weapons?" 

Here are some of their 
responses: 



Contact Us! 



The Communicator 

Suite 215. W:ilb Student Union 

2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 

Fort Wayne. IN 46805 

siupQper@holmcs.ip fw.edu 

Editor: 481-6584 
Publisher: 481-6585 

Advertising: 481-6583 
Fax: 4S I -6045 



Editorial Board 



ticldl Saliba. EJiior 

NilhiD DIehl, Manasins Ediior 

Todd Hamm. Nm Ediior 

Dhhii Early. Fratum Editor 

Jan Tcdcn. Spuni Ediior 

tannin Zhfe, Photo Editor 

Ivnlhy [&gt;elBgrnngc. Copy Ediior 

Brandon Sctiwaru. Reporttr 

Knii\\tVat,Riponrr 

Ella Stutzman, Ad^tnuing Manager 

ShannUa WlJcyukuilUir. Special Stcii 

Sates 

DoHe Reynolds, Pubiuhcr 



er, much less v 



It to type a 
lie one. Hi IS IS 



illy have been in the 
lab al times when these people are 
bcmg very disruptive by talking 
back and forth with someone who 
is across the row or three comput- 
ers away. This was belore the neiv 
orange notices on top ol the moni- 



In i 



idea 



situation, no 
enforcement would be needed 
and all these addicts would find 
some other place to satisfy their 
cravings. However, this is not the 
case and I am wondering who 
actually has the responsibility of 
enforcing the rules. If the techni- 
cians are the ones responsible for 
this, they apparently arc nol doing 
their jDt», 





What scares me is that people will take advantage of 
the situation where they're just like, "Hey, let's put 
some talcum power together and pretend and let's 
evacuate everyone from a building because we want to 
be stupid and sadistic." People scare me because 
they're ignorant. 

Heather Essex 

Sophomore, 

Secondary History Education 

I think it's simply an important issue that everyone 
should be aware of. 

Illyes Hassib 

Junior, 

Finance 



Yeah, I'm scared. I've read a couple books about it, 
and the idea of something that is small taking you 
over and taking a society over and just demolishing. 1 
feel safe in this country, but still the thought if it ever 
did come up, it would really scare me. 

Travis Beaty 
Sophomore, 
Theatre 



Yeah, I'm scared about the threat because it's a dan- 
gerous thing, but being in Indiana, I'm not scared 
right now because it's only in the big stales, but 1 
think it will be scary if it keeps happening. 

Gretchen Custer 
Sophomore, 
Criminal Justice 



Yes I am because it's a serious matter, and if we don't 
find a solution to the problem it could get even worse 

Matt Sheets 
Ireshman, 

Undecided 



Simple question: 

Open or closed 



iVivn tHijij; ofvn 




From the 
Right 



ThL-diltcani;L'i 
and cli&amp;i'-mirided l^ 
term open-mmded docs not refer to sc 
IS willing to try anytfung for the sake of div 
or open-mindedness. Likcwij 
close-minded docs not 
necessarily mean that the 
person can't tr)- new. dif- 
ferent ai^d illegal things. 

The root &gt;vord ls mind, 
which indicates tfiat these 
terms refer to your mind 
Someone who is 
open-minded will listen to 
all the sides of an issiK 
make an educatLMl dec 
based on the facte. 
Close-minded people 
attempt to push their Nathan DIehl, 

, . Managing Editor 

views on others and ore 

not willing to hear the other view, 

I am really awed by the number of people 
who actually believe that I am close-minded 
because I have an opinion. Both close-minded and 
open-minded people have opinions. The difference 
is how they liavc arrived at their opinions and 
what they do when their opinions arc challenged. 

If being open-minded mcar\s that I have to try 
cverytfiing al least once, then I never want to be 
called open-minded. I do not want to try cocaine, 
nor do I have any desire lo follow bin Uiden and 
kill innocent people. I never want to try being gay 
and 1 never want to try having sex with multiple 
parh;iers. 

If close-minded means that 1 stick to my 
morab and ethics, then please, call me close-mind- 
ed. Just because I evahiale my opinions by consid- 
ering my moral and ethical guidelines, does that 
mean I eaimot respect someone with a differing 
opinion? 

Open-minded simply mear\s you will listen lo 
other opinions in a respectful manner. Several 
weeks ago I spoke with a member of United 
Scxuahtics and I certainly hope that the impression 
1 left with him was not that I am better than him. 
Throughout our conversation I listened intently 
and respectfully to the things he said. 

Although I don't agree with a lot of things, I 
am smart enough to understand that when tivo 
people have differing opinior« and neither side 
has any hard proof, these arc simply opinions, , 

I can't push my belief structure on anyone: 1 , 
can only hope to be an influencer. Close-minded- . 
ness is not defined by the strength of beli'ef in one's 
own opinion. Open-minded people are Ihose whJ 
define their opinions based on objectively looking] 
at both sides of the issue before forming their opir- 



'T 



To judge the open-minded ness or close-mind 
cdncss of someone solely on their opiiuon, is 
judge the opinion. To truly judge whether a [Tcrsoi 
is close-minded or open-minded, try talking to 
them. Will they listen to your opinion or do they 
spend all their time telling you their opinion? 

The fundamental difference is that 
open-minded people respect the opiniotK of both 
sides, while close-minded people do not want lo 
talk about any opinion but their own. 

Moral of the story: listen lo other people 
before you judge. 



Editorial Policy 



Unsigned editorials are Ihe opinions of The 
Communicator. The opinions expressed do nol necessar- 
ily reflect the views oflPFW, its employees or its student 
l&gt;ody. A column is solely Ihe opinion of its author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from its 
readers. Letters lo the Ediior and guest columns must lie 
si^ed. daied and accompanieu by a current, valid 
address, phone numlwr, class standing or title and major- 
[.etters without these requirements will not be consid- 
ered for publication. 

All submissions made via e-mail will be verified by 
phoneor in person. Submissions via mail ore-mail with- 
out Ihis in/omialion will nol be published, except under 
extraordinary circumstances. Addresses and phone num- 
bers will riever be published. 

Submissions must be typcwrillen. double-spaced 
and no more than 400 words. Deadline is 6 a.m. on the 
Monday prior to Ihe print dale lo allow lor timely corj- 
s id era lion. 

The editorial board of The Commumcalor reservjs 
the right lo edit all submissions for length, grammar. 
style and clanly. Letters deemed libelous by The 
Communicator's editorial tNtard will ru&gt;l be publisheo 
under any ci ' ' 



Highlights 



What's up this week 



Pagan Student Alliance meeling 7t30p-I0:00p Walb 114 and 116 
Unlled Sexualilics Prism meeting Walb 110 6-30 - 930pm 
Outdoor Adventures call out Walb Union 110 noon-lpm 

■1:15pm Walb 222-226 

Campus Ministry Bible Study noon-lpm Walb lt4 

Friday, Ocl. 19 

Inter varsity Christian Fellowship group meeting 6pm-llpm WalbC21 

IP-GOP meeting CM 116 noon-IJO 

Saturday, Oct. 20 

Campus Ministry in Gales' home 7p-830p Small Group Building Relationships 

Delta Sigma Pi Alumni meeting l2:DOpm-l-30pm Walb 222-226 

Sunday, Ocl. 21 

Delta Sigma Pi Pli&gt;dge meeting 6pm-83apm Walb Union 110 

Memorial service for the victims of Sept. 11, Gates Sports Center Jpm-6pm 
Host speaker Ctiancellor Wartell, mayor Graham Richard also present 

Pi Beta Phi Spm-9pm Walb Union. Rooms 222 and 226 

Delta Gamma meeting 5pm-8pm Walb 114-116 



" Hispanos Unidos Walb Ballroom Dance Class 7;00-10;00pm 

Tuesday, Ocl, 23 

Ullimalc Photo (SAB) 10am-4pm Fireside Lounge or Walb Ballroi 

Newman Catholic Croup Catholic Mass 11 J0-2:00pm G2I 

Campus Ministry Crop Walk Evaluation 7pm-9pm KT 120 

Accounting Society meeting Walb 222-226 5:45-8J0pm 

IVCF Inl'l International Tea Walb 222-224 lOam-lpm 

Wednesday, Ocl. 24 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer Meeting noon-12 JQpm Nelf 257 



Pagan Student Alliai 



p|ing7:30p-10:00pWalbll4and 116 



United Sciuilities Prism meeting Walb 110 6:30 - 9;30pm 

Infonnation courtesy of the Office of Student Life, from their 

webpage at: 

www.ipfw.edu/stulife/calendars/events/Oct_evc.htm 



Co-op program positive 
experience for student 



3t General Electrii 






By lonah Crufrore. Stall Writer 

She may not remember how she learned about it, but 
juiuor Sonya Bcncklcy said joining the eoopcralive education 
program is one of the smarlest decisions she has made. 

major Bcnckley has l&gt;ecn 
m marketing. 

"Everything I do deals /^ "frinnpraflTrO 
wilh sales and markelmg, ^^UUptrldtlVe 

as far as doing research and 
finding a good way Id pres- 
ent it." Benckley said, 
adding that as a coopera- 
tive education student, rt is 
expected of her to perform 
as any other employee ai 
General Electric. . 

As pari ol Bcnckley's 
requirements as a co-op 
student, she has to vvrile a 
report about her experience 
at General Eteclric each 
semester. Benckley said IhUi 
gLves her lime to reflect 



lay reflect other workers' 



: edu( 



progra 



and how she will Iwnefil 
from il after graduation 

"GE is so huge and il 
has been a real learning 
experience finding out how 
mastered 



education can't 
hurt you, it can 
only help you. It 
pushes you to lim- 
its you never knew 
you could have 
met... I was chal- 
lenged and that is 
great." 

— Somja Benckley 



itil 1 started this job and t 
the workplace," Benckley s 

Benckley said she feels that she i: 
a feeling that has been brought out a 
experience. Benckley also said Ihat ' 
responsibililics because she is looked o 



part of the university. 
• 3 result of her co-op 
he has acquired new 
1 as a representative of 



Ihe university and her actions 
impressions of IPFW students. 

Benckley said. The best advice my boss ever cave me 
was that you can't limit yourself to Intlueneing people that it 
says you control on paper. Everybody ^vor^tt7or you. When 
you need something done, you find the right people to get It 
done. You need to expand your sphere of influence to suc- 

^ ceed. 1 thought that was bnllianl and it made sense 

and I started to apply that al work and now 1 can 
sec that I work lor everybody and everybody 
works for me. We are a team." 

Benckley said she believes she receives as 
many duties as any other employee at GE. She 
added that Ihe tasks given are related to previous 
work performance and Ihe more successfula work- 
er is al j task. Ihe more responsibility the worker 
will a-ceivc. 

The other employees at GE do not look at her 
any differently than any olher employee; she |ujt 
happens to l&gt;e an employee as a cooperative educa- 
tion sludenl. 

"My experience has given me so much man 
confidence as a worker. Because of my responsibil- 
ities, I cannot be alraid lo ask questions just 
because I am a co-op student," Benckley said. 

The confidence Benckley has gained is based 
on the exhilaration of pleasing her peers. She said 
she has seen the impact accomplishing a goal can 
have on her career and it can only serve lo motivate 
her tojjerform to her best potential on olher tasks. 
Cooperative education can't hurt you; it can 
only help you. It pushes you to limits you never 

y knew you could have met. I had no idea I coutd do 

the math 1 do, bul I can because I was challenged 
and that is great." Benckley said. 

Another requirement for Benckley is Ihat she work 24 
hours each week al GE. This requirement triggers Bcnckley's 
only complaint of cooperative education. 

BencWy said, "I do not Ilk 
onlvbc there for 24 hours and il 
and|usl leave work al work," 



Correction 



On page 3 of last week's issue, student leader 
Mahmudar Bhuiya was quoted as saying that "In 
India. Ihe overwhelming majority of all citizens are 

.lim. while the remainer are Hindu or 
Chnsitian. Some Indian citizens are Buddhist." 
Also, he was quoted as saying that Indian laws 

lar in nature to immigration and Affirmative 
Action laws in America have been enacted for var- 



ious reasons. In each of these instances, the refer- 
ences to India were incorrect; Bhuiya's remarks 
were in reference to Bangladesh and he was quoted 
incorrectly. Later in the article he was quoted as 
saying that "If a divorced man wants to remai 
ry...he must gel permission from his first wife." The 
sentence should have read, "If a married man 
wants to remarry...he must get permission from his 
first wife." The Communicator regrets these errors. 



« 



Visit Tbe Commuiilcalor on Ihe web: 
tv^vw.sludcnt.ipfw.cdu/^lupapcr 

Read past issues ■ Special content not 
found in printed issues 



Your Ad HERE 

for only 

$7 per issue!! 



j^* 



S^'m. National ^ii 

Ml ^i^ Cooperative Education &gt;^K^ 

^ VN Month M?^ 

How would you like to meet. . . 

Co-op Alumni 

Co-op Faculty 

Co-op Students 

Co-op Employers 

Celebrate National Co-op Month 
by exploriog your options. 



Listen while experienced co-op participants 

emphasize the importance of 

enhancing your education with a 

cooperative education experience. 

Co-op employers will promote 
their Co-op Training Programs 



The Co-op Connection 

Monday, October 22 

Walb Ballroom 

12-1:30 p.m. 



Free Lunch 



/ IPFW 



Campus 
^ Calendar 



for Oct. 18-31,2001 



IS University Religious Forum: 'Community 
Leaderstiip in the 21st Cenlu/y: Leading in a 
World of Followers,' WU 222, noon- 
l:ISp.m.Lighiiunchavail3ble;donalions 
actepted-For Information, call 6992. 

Acadsmk Counseling and Career Services 
Testing Services; for information, call 6600. 
19 Career assesimentgioupinterpreiaiion. 

KI 128, noon. 
24 Career assessment group interpretation, 

KTG41,4;15p,m, 

Concen t- NF Recital Hall (unless otherwise noted). 

19 PlogslerlhVisualand Performing ArtsSeries 
fealunngttie9thCircleSaiophorieQuaneL 
7:30 p.m. 

21 CtioralHonorslnvitationalConcen,3:30p.m, 
'ALaieAfiemoonofEarl/Music'FonWayne 
Museum of Art, S p.m. 

22 Community Orctiestra, 7J0p,m, 

23 Perfo/mingArtsMedicineSeminar'nie 
Dancer," 7 p.m., free admission, 

26 FallChoralConcertfealunng the University 

Choral Ensembles. 730 p.m 
2a SaiophoneQusftet, 2:30p.m. 
29 Faculty Artists Series, 7:30 p.m. 

20 Saturday Sessloni at Borders, 'Poetry 
Headings, 'Karen I. laquisK Borders 
Bookstore, 1 pjn.: for information, call 6808. 

21 MillenniumMaikerDcdicationandopen 
house, campus, 2—4 pm.; forinfoimaiion. 
call 66S9. 



St udent Life Events , for Info/matJOn, c 
23 Ultimate Imaging, WU Ballroom, II 



22 Co-op Connection, WU Ballroom, noon- 
1:30 p.m.; complimentary lunch. For 
information, call6918. 

Wellness Center's Fitness Classes, GC, S44 per 

person (unless otherwisenotedl: to register.call 
6619. 

22 roga Fitness, 6:15-7 a.mj Cross 
T(ainlngCircuit.5;4S-6:4S p.m.. Total 
Body Conditioning, 7-8 p.m, Mondays 

and Wedn esdays;coniinuesthrougtiDec17. 

23 Cardio Express, 5:45-6.30 pm; Sculpt 
Express, 6;45-7;30 p.m., Tuesdjysand 
Thursd3ys;continuesthroughOec.18. 

27 Saturday Circuit of Surprises. Saturdays, 
9- 10ajn„S29perperson:continues 
thfoughDec.15. 

23 AAUW-IPFW Boo&gt;( Group, We Bonds of 
Angles: The UnloldSroiy al American Nunei 
Trappedan Baloanby Elizabeth M. Norman, 
KT 101, noon. Guests and brown-bag lunches 
welcome. For information, call 6833. 

25 Omnibus Lecture Series: Cornel West. 
TheWarAgainstParenis.'WU Ballroom, 
7:30 p.m^ for mfomiation, call 6808. 

30 CS5AC blood drive, WU Ballroom, 

9-30 a.m.-330 pji».;f6r information, call 
5799. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Features 



'Let's Twist Again! 

'Legendary entertainer 
[Chubby Checker still 



iselling out 
I crowds 

NNheei 




rcceni concerl in Eli^a^&gt;clh, Indiana, Chubby Checker enter 
d a crowd of about 3.000. During his shows Checker moves 
through a varioly of musical styles such as pop, rock, country and 
oul. It is not unu&gt;;ual for the entertainer to go out inio the crowd and 
ing right into 'he faces of his fans. Here, he sang his version of the 
OHnfrv snno "F im Hitb to Elemily." 











ioV 



at. "\ OT' /s*'j5sS&gt;v.» «-a?^ 




During (he second of two shows at his Indiana Caesars Casino concert last 

ckor allowed fans from the audience to dance on stage with him. The woman on the 
-,.. was shaking to the music as Checker sang 'Whole Lotta Shakin' Coin' On " original- 
ly recorded by Jerry Lee Lewis. On the right, gentlemen were brought on the stage to take 
turns domg The Twist. 






.«:Vv-'' 



i^f'- 



tt»^'^ 



oiffM"' 










;!!»■* 






&gt;»"' 






.^siia^iiiP^"- 






, (ffiV 






Chubby Checker says he still has fun performing his shows. "Did Walt 
Disney ever get tired of Mickey?,' he says. Pari of Checker's appeal is 
that he allows interaction betvieen himself and his fans, as in this photi 
where a woman was allowed onstage to dance with him. 



Ociober 17, 2001 



Features 




'^Dick 
^American 
fand the 
/New Yea, 
Jsaid the singer's influence and^ 
f legend nrefar-reacliing and real. , ,&lt;^«„"*,,-j &lt;;&gt;»w".. 
Chubby had a trenieiidous\'t&gt;t,''&lt;in,fS'i-,';,'Sfjc 



Chubby Checker Irnvcis wllh a full bar 
oflen are broughl to Ihe forefront of h 
lances for solo efforts of their own. 



person entertainers. 






"A, ■■'.."% ■-*»*;• '*e,« ^'&gt;" 














Mk&amp; 



*^y 



*7ofi 40 JfOi 



1959 The Class #38 

1960 The Twist #1 

1961 The Hucklebuck 
#14 

1961 Pony Time #1 
1961 Dance The Mess 
Around #24 
1961 Let's Twist Again 

#8 
1961 The Fly #7 

1961 Jingle Bell Rock 
(wiUi Bobby Rydell) 

#21 

1962 The Twist #1 

1961 Slow Twistin' (with 
Dee Dee Sharp) #3 

1962 Dancin' Party #12 



1962 Limbo Rock #2 

1962 PopeyeflieHitchhiker 
#2 

1963 Let's Limbo Some 
More #20 

1963 Twenty Miles #15 
1963 Birdland #12 
1963 Twist It Up #25 

1963 Loddy Lo #12 

1964 Hooka Tooka #17 
1964 Hey, Bobba Needle 

#23 

1964 Lazy Elsie Molly 
#40 

1965 Let's DoTlie Freddy 
#40 



■ I 



■ I 



I I 




Wearing coivlnoy buots ivith a checkerboard prinl 
Chubby Checker's lies lo country music are woven 
■■" " mghoul the experience of his shows. 



Jploiicert photos by Heidi SuHba, edito^ 



Features 



October 17. 2001 



October is Cooperative Education month 



By [onah Cnsmorc, SlaK Wriler 

Octobei is Nalioiul Coopct.iliie Education Month and Dunj 
Bums, dirdlor o/ cooperative cducjlion, said she hopes sludenls al 
IPFW will lc3m how they can bcncfil Iram the piogram. 

The basic goal of cooperative education is lo allow students to 
obtain work eupcricncc rchled to their majors, be paid a compelilive 
wage and possibly earn academic credit. 

"Slu Jents can apply the theories learned it&gt; the classroom and 
see i( what they are learning in Ihc textbook is actually what is hap- 
pening m the real world," Bums said. 



She added thai seieral (acuity members have told her that coopera- 
tive cduca I ion sludcnls have enhanced the overall classroom eiqx^n- 
cncc because of theit knowledge ot the workplace. 

Specific majors are approved to co-op. Tficse majors include all 
in the School of Engineering. Technology and Computer Science, all 
students in Ihc School of Business and Management Sciences 
(including pic-bufjincssl and cerlain majors from tnc School of Arls 
and Science. 

Since cooperalivc education is an academic enhancement pro 

Sam, all students are required to be enrolled in academic classes, 
ther guidelines include having completed (reshman fequircmerils. 



t)c working toward a bachelor's degriie and having earned a 2JCPA 
on a 4.0 scale. 

Even though students who co-op learn hard skills such as theo- 
ry in the classroom and developing their skills m labs, some sofler 
skills such as confidence and communication skills are developed as 
a result of the students' expenencc with cooperative education. 
Bums said. 

"Those students who co-op develop great presentation skills 
and computer skills. These students have the opportunity to use dif- 
ferent technology than what is available at the univemty, so often 
times, they aie using cutting-edge technology that wc arc unable to 
use here at the university," Bums said. 

Even though a student does not have the same skill as someone 
who has worked at these companies for several years, they often 
bring energy, enthusiasm and a willingness lo work. It is often the 
fresh ideas that these students bring to the company thai lead lo the 
student receiving a job offer after graduation. 

"Attitude is everything lo these employers and many employ- 
ers are inlcicsled in hiring students after they graduate. I^or exam- 
ple, last year 54 j^ercent oTstudenls who graduated who did co-op, 
were offered employment opportunities By their co-op employer." 
Bunts said, adding that on the average, 91 percent of students who 
co-op are offered employment opporlunilies within one month of 



The goal of National Cooperative Education Month is to height- 
iwareness on campus. Bums said. In order I o do so, the 



Cooperative Education program ls sponsonng events, mcluding the 
fifleenlh anniversary' celebration in Nelf 337 held Monday, Oct. 15, 
from 1-5 p.m. The list event, called The Co-op Connection, is to be 
held Monday, Oct- 22, (rem noon-l 30 p.m., in the VValb Ballroom. 

"The Co-op Connection is a great way for students lo find out 
what cooperative education is. We ivill have break-out sessions [or 
each major, and in these groups there vnll either be a co-op studeni, 
a co^)p alum, a co op faailty member or a co-op employer prcsenl- 
ing to the students exactly what cooperative cclucation Is and the 
positive attributes of participating in the program," Burns said. 

In the search (or the perfect job for these students. Bums said 
she hopes the students do not forget that cooperalivc education docs 
not just mean students receive credit for going lo work. 
"Cooperative education is just that- II is part of a student's educa- 
tion. The work experience and the class room, experience go hand 
and hand. A student participating in cooperative education caimol 
have workeipericncc without having experience in the classroom." 



Murder mystery minus momentum 

Curtain 
Ca[f 



•By 'BrancCoi 
Sctiwarze 




-?i 



Wendicc's want for money served as his motive, hie also kneiv 
that his wife, Margot (played by Cathy Christolf) was having an 
affair with an American television mystery writer named Max 
Ha II id ay, played by Kerry Yingling. The affair had gone on for a year 
and a letter had been written by Max to Margot. 

Tony got hold of the letter and wrote a (ew anonymous noles lo 
Margot, posing as a blackmailer. He then got a little cash from 
Margot, meaning lo keep the non^enistenl blackmailer quiet in an 
allempt to provide the means to blackmail someone else into killing 
Maigot. 

Tony tracked down an old Cambridge college chum who had a 
criminal record and worked as one ol London's best con artists. 
While the two sat in Tony's living room having drinks, Tony showed 
Andrew Gingrich's character, Caplain Lesgate, the letter he nabbed 
(rom Margot's handbag. White in the process ol looking at it, 
Lesgate puis fingerprints on the envelope, Ihus presenting itself as 
enough evidence to make Lesgate look like a fiendish blackmailer 



The tip jar was filled and the booze flowed like honey at the 
Oct. 13 performance of "Dial M for Murder." the second show of 
Areiu Dinner Theatre's 29lh season. 

Actor and director Daniel Woodruff is a local fixture in Fort 
Wayne's theatre comnuinity and look charge of Frederick Knott's 



nth wile and a scheme. 

Tony Wendice, played by Todd Staszak, is a former tennis play- 
er of note who abruptly decided to quit the racket. He then started 
work as a salesman in a sparling goods store. Wendice acouired a 
taste for the finer things while galaCanting around Wimblcaon, but 
was unable to sustain the lifestyle on the pay of a tennis ball sales- 
man, so he needed a way to supplement hi.'i income. He decided to 
kill his wife. 



compel Lesgate to take part in the complex crime Wendice has 
devised. 

'While Wendice's plan is timed to the second, a few things go 
wrong and he is served a few tennis baits he can't quite return. 

One of those major tennis balls is Ihc arrival of Chief Inspector 
Hubbard, played by Larry Baddcrs. Hubbard is the clever, 
Columbo-likc cop. who knows who he should put handcuffs on as 
soon as he walks into a room. After Hubbard made his entrance, the 
audience could not wait to see how he would get his man. 

Staszak has also appeared at Arena in "Cabaret" and "How the 
Other Half Loves" and in 2001, he took home Ihe "Service to the 
Theatre Award." In "Dial M," Staszak played Wendice wilh Ihc same 
okay-ness that usually accompanies his work. In a show about 
blackmail and murder, il is not e\pcclcd to find a few laugh lines, 
and Staszak did just fine in that respect. Tlie audience cmickled 



more Ih.in once in reply to ouips made while conversing wilh 
Lesgalc and while trying to pull the wool over the eyes of liupeclor 
Hubbard. 

Chrisloff strolled atop the .stage wilh both case and stage pres- 
ence, tvhile Baddcrs deserves special note for playing ^c pensive 
and seemingly puzzled Chief Irtspector HubbanL When Baddcrs 
made his initial entrance wearingawrinklc-free suit and bowler, he 
carried himself with the authority and demeanor befitting Ihe finest 
of English bulldog detectives. Badders, compared to the rest of the 
company, possessed the mcrst naturality in gesture, ease of movc- 
menl and honesty ol character. 

In olhcr words, 1 forgot he was Ihc Baddcrs I saw carry himself 
so nicely on stage and found myself believing he was the role he 
portrayed. 

^Vhilc I have no doubt in my mind that the leads-Gingrich and 
Badders-gave their all, overall the show dragged something fierce. 

A slow pace can help an audience absorb the elements ol a 
complicated plot and sei^ucnce of events, but there is a point when a 
slow pace becomes too slow. 

It would have been more beneficial to change from an cncr- 
geticpace to a slower pace when 11 would have helped in the build- 
up of suspense. But instead. Woodruff allowed his aclors to come 
across almost complacent in their acting. Consequently, Ihe show's 
impact on the audience suffered. When Ihe show was over, I even 
saw a few people leave faster than Paul Revere when he heard Ihe 
British were coming. 

In response lo a question about the show being slow-moving, a 
fellow theatre-goer said, "Are you kidding? Slow is an understate- 



Bike patrols give closer contact with campus 



By Ryan P. Shepherd. Slatf Wriler 

After IPFW police officers had thought about 
it for several years, according lo IPFW Chief of 
Police Lauren Denharlog. the liming is right for 
IPFW's new bike patrols. 

An idea that was invented internally by the 
IPFW police, the bike patrols began in April, 

The patrols normally consist of one or two 
officers in addition lo an officer patrolling the cam- 
pus in a patrol car. The bikes are able to get into 
areas the vehicle could not, while providing mure 
speed than an officer on fool. It may he hard to con- 
trol traffic or carry equipment on the bikes, but 
Denhattog feels that certain things are gained from 
the hike patrols. 

Denharlog said Ihal an officer could actually 
get across campus as fast, if not faster, than a police 
car because the roulc they could take would be 
more direct. The closer contact with students is also 



According lo Denhartog, an officer c 



bicy- 



car and the sen; 

dents (eel safer. 

"As we prepare for dorms," Denharlog said, 

"we are trying to improve our service to Ihc (IPnV) 

community as much as we can." 

Bike patrols are merely part of this improve- 
ment effort and have not met ivilh any problems 

thus far. 

There is no question thai Ihe bikes are being 

used. The (our officers who make up the bike 

patrol team have run nearly 400 miles across cam- 
Depending of the manpower available, these 

officers work neatly every snift of the IPFW police 

schedule. 



Wooden Nickel 
on the move 



By Ryan P Shepherd, Slalf Writer 

When Wooden Nickel Music moves its collec- 
tor's store, manager Tim Hogan hopes that the 
slore set-up will be 'tidier (or a change." 

The move (rom its Ct'escenl Avenue location 
lo S422 N. Anthony Boulevard next to Bookmark 
used book store will lake place Ihe weekend o( 
Oct. 20, 

'The new store will open its doors on Oct. 22. 
Special promotions will run Ihal week, along with 
a (ew special events. 

At 4 p.m. on Wednesday, Oct. 24, joe 
Bonamassa will be making an appearance at the 
new store before playing at Pierc s that evening. 
TTiere will also be a guitar giveaway. 

Hogan said that the selection of music at the 
new store won't change much, but thai they 



"might add some stuff" in the future. 

However, Ihe display of what Ihe store 
already has will change. After years of placing 
extra stock under bins on Ihe floor, the new, larger 
location will bring that stock up off Ihe floor and 
into the bir)s with everything else. 

"Everything will fit, said Hogan, who 
seemed excited about the prospect. 

Along with the more readily available music, 
the new store will feature a larger selection of 
posters than has ever been available in the past. 

Hogan also said that the store will have 
"much belter parking." Several parking spaces 
will now be available with easier access. 

For more information about promotions and 
the new location, call 484-3635. 






hingl 

your 



Impact Art 



located in the Coldwaler Crossing Shopping Center off of 
Coldwatcr and Washington Center Roads by Hobby Lobby. 

2. Spencer's Gifts, located in Glenbrook Mall, also has pre- 
packaged adult and children's costumes. A variety of costumes 




le of Ihe most notable art-related hobdays approaches: 
Halloiveen. Because Halloween falls on a Wednesday this .vear. 
number ol people will be holding Halloween parties over Ihe 
' couple ol weekends. Here are some lips for places to 
acquire a noticeable celebratory outfit either on or off a budget. 
It you have some cash to spend: 

I. Sloner's Funstores have a variety of outfits both for 
idulU and children. Sloner's is most noted (or their elabomte 
lasks ranging (rom mutibted ghoul heads to Darth Vader 
S Sloner s also carries full costumes including an adult- 
sued zip-up Scooby Doo oulfit. Pre-packaged costumes and 
iries are also available. The prices can be overwhelming 
for people on a budget A full pre-packaged adult costume runs 
"[|ammimumofS30, on average. The closest Sloner's to campus IS 



Vampirella dress, but the total number t 
smaller than Stoncr's. Accessories such as ivigs and fangs are 
also for sale. Look again to spend around S30 for a pre-packaged 
adult costume set. Spencer's docs have a website, 
wwwipencergifl5.com. The site is difficult lo navigate, howei'- 
er, due to the high volume of holiday shoppers overloading the 
website. Web shoppers are frequently requested to rctum at a 
later date. 

3. Priscilla's Adult Novelties and Gifts is another avenue. 
Located on Coldwaler Road near IHOP. Priscilla's otters a vari- 
ety of costumes and accessories. The costumes begin around 
S40. Most of the outfits are directed toward female shoppers, 
however, and are (or the 18 and over crowd only. 

4. Wal-Mart is an option (or people on a budget. Full adult 
pre-packaged costumes average around 520, but the vanely is 
slim. Most costumes are directed toward children, but acces- 
sories such as wigs, fangs, make-up and the all-important plas- 
tic Halloween pumpkins are avaiUble in abundance and run for 
an average o(il-3. 

5. Goodwill Industries of(er conscientious shoopers a 
chance lo mix and match a vanely of costumes for under S5. A 
Goodwill Store is located near thecomer of Coliseum Boulevard 
and Paroell Avenue. All proceeds go lo chanty 

Not all ghoulies and goblins can afford to buy . 



Don. 



in Ihe &gt;vay^ Here ate Ihe lop five self-con- 



denls on campus (most notably the memt&gt;eis of Ihe Advanced 
Pnntmakuig Class). 

5. A bunch of grapes. Requirements: balloons and masking 



tape. Inflate the balloons and eilher tape them to one's clothing] 
or to a garbage bag with arm holes and a hole cut out for youi 

4. A mummy Requirements: toilet paper. Just wrap your- 
self up in toilet paper. Strips of paper and tape are also usable. 
This costume is not recommended for rainy evenings. 

3. A dragon. Requirements; a vanety of botes, a pair of scis- 
sors, tape and either paint or constroction paper and glue. Cut 
arm and leg holes into either a large box or piece two smaller 
botes together and cut the holes. Cut a hole for the head. Cut 
eye holes into another smaller bo«. Glue a long rectangular l&gt;ox 
on the front (or a nose and eilher cut and glue on scales or paint 
the scales on. Decorate more il desired. Green clothing could 
abo be wom for where the arms and legs will be visible, 

2. Eighties Retro Flashback. Ladies can tease their bangs 
and use a full can o( hairspray to hold their hair in place. Pant 
legs can be gathered and rolled up. Double together two pairs of 
pastel-colored socks and don a pair of large hoop earring. Guys 
can wear the pink or baby blue Miami Vice suits wilh a l-shirl 
underneath along with loafers and no socks. Guys '" 

sculpt their hair to mimic the "flock of seagulls" retro i 

1. And the number one recommended costume for 
Halloween 2001: Go naked arid pretend to be the Invisible 
Woman/Man, This costume is not advised due to the cfiill factor 
and probability of incarceration (or public indecency. Going in 
the buff was, however, the number one recommended costume 
for students on a budget, so this suggestion is being listed any- 

Thesearcjustafew , 

the upcoming Halloween 
t n c k-or-lrea tin g. 



„ ft" 

Good luck and happy 



=s:m 



Ociober 17. 2001 



Sports 



Coaching: a reward- 
ing career alternative 



Menis soccer downs Western Michigan 



ling fool 



child, they woi 

mc, "Whai do you wani 

lo be when you 

up?" -A profesronal |;;|„;' 

soccer player/' I would ^„l 

confidenlly 

reply. "You can be 

anylhing you 

wani, Ihey would 

conclude. 

We were bom- 
b.irdird with these 
lines growing up in 
America. As 
youths, Ihi^ 

American Dream 
became a daily 
spoon-feeding. 
"All you need is 
bard work and 



This n a dog-cal-dog 
world. Less than one 
perceni of us ever see 
our game-winning ihol 
as ju5( anolher day at the 
office. We may have a 
lid asli belter chance al wLiuiine 
^ "v^"' Ihc lottery than ever set- 



fnthusiasti 



would say. Yeah'', 
rightl Hey. 1 lovcid the 
fitm -" ' " •-- "- ■■ 




By Ion Tedcrs. Sports Editor 



Tlie Dons made the most of their opporluni- 
ties by scoring four goals in six shots. (Combine 
that with a Milid goalkeeping performance for 
keeper Peter Hachaj and you have all the makings 
of a successful game plan, 

IPFW got the scoring started early as Mark 
Jagustm look a cross pass from Ian Luya and 
pounded the ball into the net for a 1-0 EPW lead 
at the 10:16 mark. 



The Dons built on their lead al the 2024 mjrk 
when Luya put a penalty kick past Western 
Michigan goalie Mark HowelL The score then was 
Dons two. Mfestem Michigan zero. 

IPFW kept the motor running on hi^ as they 
built a four-point lead early in the second hall 
with a bte firsl half goal by Sclh Fishetson on a 
pass from Luya. at the Wfll mark. Early m the 
second hall, Luya 5con?d his second goal of the 
ni^l. this time unassisted, pulling the Dons up 
■M), and the blowout continued. 
Western Michigan added a couple of late goals, 
but by that time, the outcome was decided. R was 
a 4-2 imv win. 



TheD«ns.mpm\eJlhoLrn.-condto2-7-l.and 
Luya *vas a big reason for thai. Luya had a hand 
m every IPFW goaJ. scoring Hvo and assisting on 
the other two. 

This IPFW team is really becinnmg to play 
well and has made significant siridis from earlv 
ui the season. 

After IPFW's firsi win against DePaul. I 
asked Hachaj how it (elt and he responded vvith 
■Now 1 can sleep at night." If the Dons conlinue 
their inipmvemenl. he should get many Rood 
nighb' rests. 



Tine Wrigley experience 



cccr coach. This past 

ended abruptly with a 
. sectional championship 
was a bit more realistic- jc^j. vVe lost a total of 
No(v I m nol saying that gjgh, games, one being .i 

Ih,. AmPr.&lt;-.nn Dr^-im fOmplele bloWOUt, 9-0, 



By Jon Teders. Sports Editor 

It was absolutely gorgeous ou 
absolutely wonderful day (or a bast^ 
ball game, I woke up around 7am 
ready to go, adrenaline pumping and 
my heart racing. This was no ordinary 
day. this was a day (or celebration. I 
was going to the most holiest ol base- 
ball diamonds. I was going to Wriglev 



mentally prepared to enjoy the game. He had Ihc 
been to many Cubs games before, but not ' 
long time, and he just wanted lo take in 



t had tickets lo the Chin 



igo Cubs 



doesn't eiist. especially 
during a time of sucn 
patriotic fervor. But 
achieving your child- 
hood dream takes a little 

and hard work. A rab- 
bit's foot and a sprinkle 
of Cod-given talent may 
be necessary. 

About five 
ago. 



I faced injuries, hor- 
rible a(ficiating. raging 
parents, disrespectful 
players, and long bus 
rides. And they pay was 
practically (or peanuts. 
But I can Inily say that 
this was the most 
rewarding job I've ever 
had. 



loweJ the lives of I 



,, . ..».. able to teach 

extraordmarv ^^ ^^^^ , t„^^_ rhcn^ 
was released, „„ p:,ritemenl. victory. 

honor. There was pride 



of the season, 'fhe last game ol 
Ihc season, and I was going lo be there. 
You see, I had never been to a Major 
League Baseball game. That's righl me. 
Mr, Baseball, as my brother refers to 
mc, had never been lo a big league 
game. I could tell you who hit fifth for 
the 1989 Chicago Cubs, (which by the 
way was Dwight Smilh. left field), but 
could never tell you 1 saw the ivy on 
the outfield wall, drank a Wngley beer, 
or sang in the sevenlh iruiing stretch. 






tily youths hoping ^^ sallsfactii 



lo become the next 
Michael Jordan. They 
had the talent, the dedi- 
cation and perhaps a lit- 
tle luck as well. Bui Ihese 
Blue Chips saw nothing 
from the Dream but a 
short taste of glory and a 
slap in the face. Like 



cessfulty luming a rag- 
lag group at undenflass 
toe-bashers into a com- 
petitive soccer team. 

So if your sports 

move past high school or 
college, perhaps coach- 



salesman. Funnel your 



childhood fantasi 

short. They'll be like out ,„„„.„., ^ ^ 

parents, speaking of the jmo ^ reasonabfe nobility 
glory days when Ihcy you'll be giving lo the 
were high school confer- community, the youth 
once champs. There may ^^ ,„ yourself. You may 
even be a SO-yeat-old 
newspaper with your 
father's name in small 
print. The day we miss 
the call up is the day we 
lose our innocence... the 
day when a harsh real- 
ization becomes jusi a 
simple growing pain. 



lid.The day began warm 
and sunny The group of Cub fans for 
the day was my wife and myself. The 

group of Cub (ans for life (vas mv 
ncle Mike, and my grandfather We 
all bided up into "IheBoat" .js I like to 
call it {really my grandmother's Buick). 
and headed for Chicago, For three 
hours, we did nothing bul talk about 
Cubs baseball. From Ron Santo lo 
Harry Carey, we covered it all. 
'Remember when JenDme Walton won 
the Rookie of the Year award?." I uttered to my 
uncle. "Remember we have nol heard from him 
since7."he replied. My grandfather didn't say 
much. He jusI listened. You could see him-getling 




Wavcland and Addison Slrwt and 
ijoyed our S5.00 beer It ivas the best beer I have 
r drank. Shortly after we entered the park, the 
smell o( beer, peanuts, and Chicago^tyle hoi 
dogs filled Ihe air as we walked up the ramp 
to ourseals. We were in the lower terrace, and 
had some pretty good seats. I was the one 
who ordered the tickets and asked my grand- 
father whal he thought of Ihem. hlis reply 
■ not bad." and said nothing ebe. "Not badll, 
1 thought to myself, "Ihdse are great seats " 
The game began with the rii.ites lumpini; on 
lop 1-0 in the first ii\nm^; I lixikt-d .it my 
grandfather. He showed little eimluin j'^ he 
■atched what was going on, but hv finally 



le back 



cotjfiesyofwww.cijbs.com 
Sammy Sosa of the Cubs hits a home run early on in Ihe 
Major LeagLif Baseball season. 



moment. 

We arrived al Wrigley at 11:00 ai 
for a beer? 1 think not. We slopped al 



■ed him completely. 
The game went on into the late innings, and 
Ihe Cubs found themselves down 4-2 going 
into Ihe bottom of the eighth inning. With two' 
outs Sammy Sosa walked up to the plate. The 
crowed roared knowing that this would prob- 
ably be his last at bat, and they came to their 
feci. He took the first pilch right down the 
tenter of the plate. It was a (astball, and Ihe 
crowed moaned. I looked at my grandfather 
-md said. "How could he take lhal7" He 
looked me and just put hi^ finger up as i( lo 
■..ivju'il Willi ,1 mimid' c&gt;, i|„. v.Tv ncxl pitch, 

his lace, and th.ilS ivhon I realized that you 
don't come lo Wrigley lo watch the Cubs, 
you don't come for Ihe Ivy. you don't even 
come to sing. Take me out to the ball game.' 
It's all about having a great time wilh family 
and friends. I'll talk about this game for the 
resl of my life, and reminisce about it with my 
grandfather, I'm sure he will have plenty to say. 



inted i 
wspape 



the local 
.in small 



Visit Tbe Conunuoicator on tbc web: 
w W1V. s tu d e n 1. i p fw. e d u/~s lu pa per 

Read past issues • Special comeni not 
found in primed issues 



SPORTS WRITERS NEEDED 
PLEASE CALL JON: 481-6584 



Student seats are available to serve on 

The Board of Directors of 

The Communicator. 

If interested, please call 481-6585 for 

information 
regarding membership on the board 




Spring Break Vacations! 

^jn.:un. Jamaica. Bahanus, &amp; Florida. Book Early &amp; gel frc 
Earn cash &amp; Go FREE! 
Now hiring Cjmpus Rqis 1-80D-J34-70D7 
Hw^.ontllcsinunimcrniiirt.cQm 




PIEASI RECVGIE THIS NEWSPAPER 



Your Ad HERE 

for only 

S7 per issue!! 




(^dgerton^ 

Your Student Travel Service ^^^B^^H^Bm 
Oeilan Yoj Onm Vocotion... 

■Jstudtnt Airfare stt\ttmafior»al Stude/it Identity Cord 

■.Hostelling International 

. .or Join A firoupl 

Sprwg Brrok m Cmcin or Puerto Vollorta' 

OubMed 

Confiki Vocations for 18-35 year olds 

Much, much more.' 

www.edgertonsTravel. 




l-BOO-643-4604 




IBSS) •113-3 J38 or &gt; 



SPRING BREAK PARTYI 

Indulge In FREE Travel, Drinks, Food, and Parties with the 



a 



Visit The Communicator on the web: 
wwM'.studenr.ipfw.edu/~jHi p3per 

Read past issues • Special conlcnl nol 
round in printed issues 




Check us out!! 
www, homecitvice.coin 

GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES!! 

Flexible Hours &amp; GREAT PAYil 

We offer 10-40+ hours/week 

Route Dsllvery &amp; Packaging Poiitians 

$6.50-$12.00-t-/HOUR 

800-622-6566 

Ft. Wayne/ North Webster 

Great Part-Time Hours Avallablell Work Around Your 
School Schedule with Mornlng/Aftornoon and 

Weekend Hours. Call Todayl 
Ho experience Necessary. TnxncnteAuanvKKa 



wwvy.homecityice.com 



News 



Wellness series focuses on weight loss, management 



By Andy Wclflf , Reporter 

The IPFW Wellness Center a spon- 
soring a wncs o( eighl Mondav aflcr- 
noon meetings focusing on healtn. wcll- 
ncM and proper nulrilion. 

"We're trying lo gel you oH the did 
kick and on the heallh and wellness 
kick," said |udy Tillapaugh, Wellness 
arid Fitness coordinator. 

Tillapaugh said the scries, tilled 
~Wi;i|h To Go... Treat Yoursell Well." "is 
dclinilcly designed to help wilh weighl 

Andean, from p. 1 

The Chinchorros i 
raid, who mummific 

During Ihe early days of the Chinchorro era. 
mummificalion was a comple* process involving 
a number of sleps. 

Mummifiers first deflcshed (he bodies of Ihe 
dead and loaslcd their bones over fires, he said- 
Then Ihey wrapped Ihe bones in reed (ords and 
encased them in a mud paste. On the outside of 
Ihe pasle, ihe features of the decease were sculpt- 
ed. 



re not inleired, but were oflen laying 

"I'erhaps in a form of anccsior worship. Ihe 
Chinchorros may have been feeding their 
deceased loved ones. 

I always gel Ihe question 'Why did Ihey i 



management week by week. We help 

Kss goals to improve wei^t and well' 
ing." 

The liisl meeting on Oct 1. fealured 
speakers Greg Anderson, Beau Krafll 
and Tillapaugh. who is a registered dic- 

On Ocl. 8, Ihe scries focused on walk- 
ing. Tillapaugh said Ihe lecture dealt 
with how walking not only helps keep 
the circulation system going and mus- 
cles fit. but how it is a good stress man- 
agcmenl lool. "11 gives you lime out 



from Ihe resi of the world, time to relax 
and resI your mind." she said. 

This pasi Monday, the presentation 
was led by IXin Smith, campus coun- 

Tiilapaugh said Smith spoke on rec- 
ognizing certain eating habits. 
"Sometimes you want to have a cookie 
or a bag ofchips or a candy bar because 
it is hatit." she said. 'Tnggers of this 
habit may be a certain person, lime of 
day, place or mood." She said Smith 
spoke of ways lo avoid and overcome 



such habits in his presentation 

Future meetmgs in this scnes include 
topics such as "Strengthen ing 
Abdominal Muscles,- "Portion 
Control... Less is More.""Brealhe Easy." 
"Do Not Lei Stress Eat You Up" and 
"Healthy Holiday Cooking." 

The Oct- 22 and Nov. 19 meetings 
will be held in Gales Sports Center The 
rest of Ihe meetings (vill take place in 
Walb Union. Room C21. 

The presentations are free and open 
lo the public. 



Along with Ihe Wellness Center. Ihe 
series l*. spoiv^ored by Ihe Center for 
Women and Returning Adults. 
Campus Ministry and the department 
of alhlelics. recreation and intramural 

To obtain more information, stop by 
the front desk at the Gales Sports 
Ccnicr for a brochure, call 48I-6"M7 or 
email Judy Tillapaugh at 
lillapauOipfw.edu. 



. that the 
known as Irepine- 



mify Iheir dead?' Mv theory 
Chinchorros had a skin disease kno 



He ^id the disease, when left untreated as it 
was in ancient times, leaves horrible skin lesioi\s 
on suffcTers. It also disfigures faces and bones in 
contact wilh Iheskm. 

"You don't want lo inter loved ones with bad 
skin," he said. 

He explained that the Chinchorros defleshed 
Ihci^ dead and replaced the flesh wilh smooth 
mud paste to erase the signs and scars of the dis- 

Sullersaid he got into anthropology because it 
provided a mearu lo study biology and human 
groups while not being cooped up in a lab. 

He has been going to South America during the 
summer since 1992, 

Last summer he traveled lo Trujillo in Peru. 

Sutler said South American indigenous peo- 
ples, especially in Peru and Chile, were mon; 




Pholo by Todd Hamm, News Editor 
Sutler used skull and bone replicas to 
illustralc cerlain points on how 
Andean peoples sacrificed victims and 
mummified their dead during his lee* 
lure. 



Emery, from p. 1 

"Although I did not ivork with 
Ron daily, we were in touch quite 
often in conjunction with his 
tjjthful 'development 'con la cling 
i-ii alumni and engineering grad- 
ualfs. VVe also enjoyed many 
liinchcs together, talking about 
^nll and sports. 

"Ron was one of the finest 
gentlemen that I have ever met. 
His love for leaching, engineer- 
ing, his students and his family 
^v as so evident in his life. He was 
.iluavs able to find the positives 
111 any negative situation and 
^ttiicd always to give people the 
lienefit of the doubt, i-lis person- 
.ililv drew people to him and his 
kLndncss was contagious. 

Working with him in the 
di'ielopment area. Ron was 
vLsionary in knowing that there 
was a vital connection between 
the financial support needed 
from alumni and friends wilh Ihe 
fuiure well-being of his depart- 
menl and school he cared so 
much about. He lilcrally enjoyed 

IRC, from p. 1 



Then they read the books togelh- 

Aflerwards, the books are dis- 
cussed so that the volunteer can 
evaluate the student's level of 



personally con lac ting hundreds 
of graduates and his past stu- 
dents to talk to them about engi- 
neering and lo sec how Ihey were 
doing in life. He was happy to 
hear of many successlul careers 
during these' calls. Often, I saw 
written Comments attached to the 
gilts we received from former 
sludenls telling him of his influ- 
ence in their success and thank- 
ing him. He loved Purdue 
University and obviously IPFW, 
for 35 years of leaching at one 
place shows a wonderful loyally. 
And Ron was truly a loyal gentle- 
man," said Thayer 

"Ron was Ihe most 'dedicated 
lo students' teacher 1 have ever 
knoivn," said Dianne Bezdon, 
business manager for ECHT. "His 
easygoine manner and desire to 
see all ECET sludents succeed 
brought him a reputation 
achieved by few. He not only 
encouraged all of his sludenls, he 
remained in contact wilh them 
after graduation and knew their 



career paths and was genuinely 
interested in Iheir family life. I 
will mL&lt;3 his easygoing altitude 
and the wonderful stories he 
shared about his family, especial- 
ly his grandchildren." 

Emery is survived by his wife, 
Bea J.; three daughters, Karen S, 
Johnston, Traccy A, {ones and 
Ronda K. Wambach, all of Fort 
Wayne; a son. Brad A. of Port 
Wayne; 12 grandchildren; a 
great-grandchild; and two broth- 
ers. Roger E. ul South Whitley 
and Maunce A. of Sidney, Ohio. 

Emery received a bachelor ' 



n Indiai 



I Instill 



L-Of 



Technology in 1952. He n 
a second Bi-, from Ohio Stale 
University in 1956. He earned his 
master's degree from Purdue 
University in 1966, 

He worked for ITT from 1956 
to 1964 and at Magnavox from 
1964 to 1966 when he came lo 
IPnV, He was a member of Ihe 
American Society of Engineering 
Education, 



with more. 

Volunteers are trained i 
eral reading techniques before 
they start working with children. 

Although most volunleers are 
education shidenls at IPFW. Bragg 
said volunteers do not have to be 
sludenls. The main thing is thai 
volunteers are inlercsled in pro- 




child." she 

She added that volunteers have 

to fill out an application and go 

through an interviewing and 

screening process when they sign 



up. 

Lee Scnter, a senior in elemen- 
tary education who has been with 
IRC for two years, said the pro- 
gram was "a practical way to gain 
experience working with chil- 
dten." 9ic added that it worked 
well around students' schedules. 

Bragg said students who volun- 
teer receive a letter signed by Ihe 
dean of the school of education 
which Ihey can put in their porlfo- 



National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week 

October 22""- 26'" 
Kettler Ground Floor 11:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 

Watch For FREE Information and Activities: 

Monijay 22 °''- Mocktails &amp; Fatal Vision Goggles 

Tuesday 23 *^- Depression&amp; Alcohol Awareness 
Public Service Announcement Video 
Fatal Vision Goggles 

Wednesday 24 "'- RAD (Rape Aggression Defense) 
Program Information &amp; RAD Video 
Fatal Vision Goggles 

Thursday 25 "*- Sexual Health and Decision Making 
Public Service Announcement Video 
Fatal Vision Goggles 

Friday 26 "'- Tobacco, Gambling &amp; Alcohol 
Public Service Announcement Video 
Fatal Vision Goggles 

Want to Get Involved? 
Sign-up To Become an IPFW Peer 

Educator at Our Table or 
Call 481-6595 for iilore Information 

IPFW Substance Abuse Council 







Admission for All Ages: 

Haunted Castle: $8.00 Block Forest. $8.00 Phoraoh's Revenge; $8.00 
3-PAC Pass For All Three Admissions: $17.00 

I $4 OFF : 

; The Regulor Price Of The 3-Pac Ticket I 

• With This Coupon For Everyone In Your Group! : 

ilPFW --HAUNTED CASTLE COUPONS NEVER EXPIRElj 



Scores Open Every Wednesday. Thursday. &amp; Sunday Night: 7:00 P.M. to 9:00 P M. 

Open Every Fridoy end Saturday Night: 7:00 P.M. to 11:00 P.M. 
Open Monday. Tuesday &amp; Wednesday of Halloween Week; 7:00 P.M. To 9:00 P.M. 

Wflllen ot Old Auburn Road, ot the North Edge of Fort Wayne, Toke Clinton St. north from 

Campus just one mile (watch for Root's Camp d Ski) to the Auburn Road Stop Light, then left 

one mile to the Castle, or take 1-69 - Exit 116. west one mile to Auburn Rood, then South 

four blocks to the HAUNTED C/(5TLE. 



CALL 489-1763 FOR FURTHER INFO! 



A. 



Info &amp; mop: www.hauntedcastle.com 

Or www.HauntcdAmerica.com 

Un€^ Or ica-On-Line. keyword: Halloween 

sponsored For 22 Years By The SL Vincent Scouts. 



