The 



WEDNESDAY 

February 6, 2002 



Communicator 

Intiiana University — Purdue University Fort Wayne 



Volume 36, 



News Briefs iPFW's Spring enrollment hits record levels 

Second IPFW 
student charged 
with bomb threat 



An IPFW sludenl was booked 
into Ihe Allen County Lock-up Jl 
11:45 p.m., Jan. 29. on ihe charge 
of False Renorling ot In/ormine. 
a class D Felony. The studeni is 
Louis Enc BraKcn of Fori Wayne. 

Thc sludenl is charged wiih 
calling in a bomb mteal to 
Kelllcr Hall on Oct. 30.2001. 

IPFW Alumni 
Association 
offers $7000 in 
scholarships 

Over S7,000 in scholarshij' 
money is available to sludenl'- 
whose spouse, pa ren Is or step- 
parents ate IPFW alumni or lo 
students who already have an 
IPFW degree and are pursuing 
another one 

Applications for the various 
scholarships are available in Ihe 
hallway outside ol Ihc Alumni 
Relations Office, Kelllcr Hall, 
Room 142. 

The deadline for applicalions 
is March 1 and each requires that 
Ihe applicants complete Ihe 
FAFSA, 

Tlie criteria (or each scholar- 
ship var)- and are listed 

play, 

Applicalions should be 
(ctumed to the IPFW Financial 
Aid Ofhce in Kelllcr Hall, Room 
102. unless otherwise noled. 

The applications require that 
the spouse/patenl/slep-par- 
enl/sludent be a dues-paying 
member of the Alumni 
Association &lt;&amp;40 lor lU grhdu- 
alia, S30 for Purdue graduales). 

Alumni Association member- 
ship applications are also avail- 
able outside Keltler Hall, Room 
142. 

Hockey Club to 
play at CoUseimi 



Feb. 15 al Ihc Mi 
Coliseum. The match-up will 
start at appionimately 10:30 p.m. 






The Maslodi 

in (ACHA) in Division II. 



the American College Hockey 



IPFW freshman enrollment 
increased in Ihe Spring 2002 
semester from 4.162 last year to 
4.657 this year, up 11.9 percent. 
Sophomore class enrollments 
also increased, from 2,024 to 
2,201, an inwease of 9,7 percent, 
while junior, senior and gradu- 

increased by smaller amounts. 
The number of full- time slu- 



The ACHA's primary' i 
is to support the growth of two- 
and four-year collegiate hockey 
programs nationwide and iden- 
tify standards ivhich serve to 
unite and regulate learns at the 
collegiale level. It emphasizes 
academic pettormance, institu- 
lioruil sanction, eligibility crite- 
ria, standards of play and oppor- 
tunities for national competiHon. 



Prof to discuss 
volcanoes at 
Science Central 

On Feb. 16, the Lunch With an 
IPFW Scientist program will fea- 
ture Aruie ArgasI and her pres- 
entation, "Volcanoes," al Science 
Central at 11:30 a.m. 

Participants will learn about 
volcanoes and votpanic rocks, 
and discover why some volca- 
noes explode and others pro- 
duce lava thai flows gently 
do«Ti Ihe sides. 

Lunch With an IPFW Scientist 
IS for children eight to 16 years 
old. Families are also welcome. 
The cost is S5 per person (or 
Science Central members and 
SIO for non-members. The fee 
includes lunch. 



Index 

opinions 2,3 

Highlights 3 

Features .4,5 

Sports 6 



Parl-nme cnroUmenl also rose 
from 5,154 to 5J29. 

Full- time-equivalent enroll- 
ment, which combirus full-time 
and part-time enrollments, 
reached a record level o( 6.808- 

IPFW enrollment numbers 
were released earlier loday by 
Jack C- Dalil. associate vice chan- 
cellor for Institutional Research 



hour^ over last spring s totals. 

Total studeni enrollment also 
increased from 9.ft41 last year to 
I0i25 Ihis year, an eight percent 

Mii^ority student enrollments 
also rose dramatically. African 
American student eivrollmcnt is 
5M students, up from 477 lasl 
year. Hispanic student enroll- 
mcnl increased from 225 to 237, 
while Asian-American enroU- 
dropped from 243 to 215. 

Enrollment increased in the 



Schools ol Education and Health 
Sciences and in several depart- 
ments, including Accounting 
and Finance; Biology; Civil ana 
Architectural Engineering 
Technology- Also seeing a rise in 
enrollments were the depart- 
ments of Consumer and Family 
Sconces; DmtalEducaboivCencral 
Studies: History; Music; 
Nursing; Philosophy; Political 
" -----ogy -'-• 



■We are pleased with the 
record numberr of Ireshmen and 
record total enrollments." 
Chancellor Michael A, Wartell 

"We believe that the increases 
demonstrate that IPFW is 
increasingly becoming the (irsi 
choice for students seeking high- 
quality academic programs-' 




Photos by Dennlez Zhie. Pholo Editor 



Art school exhibit 



A representation of area and regional professionals in Advertising; Trade Show 
Exhibit Design and Manufacturing; Commercial Sign Artistry; Architectural and 
Interior Design; 3D Computer Modeling and Photography will be on display Ihroi 
Feb. 24. The items compiled above are featured in the exhibit. 



Famed glass blower 
enthralls IPFW crowd 



By Andy Welfle. Reporter 

You may have noticed Ihe 
very distinctive (ace gracing 
posters all around the campus — 
a mass of curly hair, a boyish 
smile and an eye patch across his 



left 



ft eye. 
IVhois 



thism 



1? His ni 



Dale Chihuly, a distinguished 
glass artist whose work is cur- 
rently on display at the Fort 



Wayne Museum o( Art, 
The posters hanging in nearly 
.1 o( IPFW build- 



Report shows HIV/AIDS impact on 
education intensifies economic downfall 



WEST LAFAI'ETTE, Ind.— 
(Purdue News) The economic 
decline caused by the HIV/ AIDS 
epidemic in one of Africa's hard- 
est hit sub-Saharan countries, 
Mozambique, may Iranslale inio 
even more dramatic losses as the 
disease takes a toll on education, 
according to a World Baijt report 
by a Purdue University agricul- 

Keeping children in school 
and maintaining educational 

Sjality, however, could temper 
le country's long-lenn negative 
economic prospects, Channing 
Amdt reports in a soon-lo-bc 
published World Bank document. 
This is Ihe first macroeconom- 
ic study to focus on the impact of 
the illness on education and the 
subsequent long- 



Acndt's analysis shows that 
the worldwide HlV/AlDS epi- 
demic is leading to a far-reaching 
human development catastrophe 
in Mozambique, as it is in other 
disease-stricken countries in the 
region, such as South Africa. 

He writes that long-term ect&gt;- 
nomic outcomes in Mozambique 
could be changed, depending on 
how education is handled. 

Experts project titat in 
Mozambique, AIDS will kill 
large numbers of teachers and 
school administrators, with 
potentially heavy impacts on 
school eruullments. 

This will worsen already 
severe constraints on providing 
education, Amdt said. Also, 
large numbers of students are 
likely to quit school in order to 
work and/or take care of sick 



"You have to look at hoiv the 
disease will impact Ihc whole 
economy," Arndt said. 
"Depending on Ihe region o( 
Mozambique, six percent lo 20 
percent of the adult population is 
HIV positive." 

Al the low end of the estimate 
of adults living with HIV. this 
means nearly one million people 
are afflicted. This is significant in 
a number of ways. Amdt said. 

"It means more spending on 
health. People won'l be saving 
for retirement," he said, "About 
two percent of laborers will die 

What does this mean for eco- 
nomic erowth, for Ihe accumula- 
tion of capital, growth of the 
population, education?" 



mgs also advertised the fact that 
Chihuly was lo be the featured 
speaker at the Omnibus Lecture 
series on Thursday, Jan. 31 . 

Open lo the public, the lecture, 
held in VValb Ballroom, was 
filled to capacity with people 
eager to hear Chihuly speak- 
Before Ihe lecture started, hvo 
documentaries on Chihuly were 
played, including one entitled 
"Chihuly and the Masters oi 
Venice," and another about per- 
haps his biggest feat to dale, an 
mslallation called "The Light of 
Jerusalem." 

With over seven honorary 
doctorates, several lifetime 
achievement awards and the 
iirsl-ever Living National 
Treasure award given by the 
United States Government, 
ChlhuVs work is not only inter- 
nationally recognized and appre- 
ciated, but greatly sought aller. 

This year, Chihuly has 29 
scheduled openings. 

Chihulv talked about his 
childhooci in Tacoma, Wash., 
and how his fascination with 
glass began. 

He grew up in a lower-mid- 
dle-class neighborhood, and 
first discovered his passion for 
color and form through redeco- 
rating lus parent's basement. 

Soon after, through experi- 
mentation with a small kiln, he 
became fascinated with glass 
and its properties. 

Chihuly said that, with very 
few exceptioiu, glass is almost 
tfie only artistic medium that 
allows light to pass through it, 

Handblown glass, he said 
with a smile, is also unique in 
thai It requires man to breathe 
into it to give it life and form. 

After talking about tils life for 
a few minutes, Chihuly began a 
presentation of a detailed scries 
of slides. 

The slides showed his work 
in different forms, and the myri- 
ad ol locales in which he has dis- 
played his work, including the 
home of Waterlord Crystal in 
Ireland, the canals of Veruce and 
Ihe Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas. 
Chihuly regaled the audience 
with talcs of his various inslall- 
ments, including the subject of 
one of the documentaries shown 
earlier, The Light of Jerusalem," 




Photo by Todd Hamm. 
News Editor 
Over 100 pieces of art creat- 
ed by glass blower Dale 
Chihuly, including these 
small 'Piccolos' are current- 
ly on show at The Fort 
Wayne Museum of Art. 
Installed in The Citadel, a 



3000-ycar 



' lorti 
5 the Blue 



ivilh o&lt; 
ns. and the 



I such pie 

Tower, a-15-tool 

2000 blue glas 

Crystal Mountain, made of a 

glass-like plastic called polyvitro. 

Chihuly's radical designs and 
revolutionary contributions lo 
the Studio Glass movement 
have rocked the art world. 

His use o( color and flowing, 
seemingly living shapes are 
unique and without equal. 

"Dale's art has brought won- 
derment and joy into Ihc hearts 
of millions," said Patricia 
Watkinson, executive director of 
the Fort Wayne Art Museum, 

She added that she had talked 
to one young boy while he was 
looking at Chihuly's art. She 
asked the boy what he thought 
of Chihuly's work, and he 
replied by pointing lo his heart 
and saying "I feel it right here," 
For more information about 
Chihuly's exhibit, call the Fort 
Wayne Art Museum at (260) 422- 
M67. or visit www, (wmoa.org. 

For more information about 
Dale Chihuly and his interna- 
tional work, visit www,chihu- 
lycom. 

The Omnibus l-ccturc Series 
will next (ealure Yevgeny 
Yevtushenko, a renowned 
author, in "The Best of the Best," 
in the Walb Ballroom on Friday, 
March 22, at 7i30 p,m. 



Gender bias still prevalent in Olympic coverage 



By Todd Hi 



m. News Editor 



Network coverage of the 2002 
Winter Olympic Games, which 
will begin Friday. Feb, 8; in Salt 
Lake City, at first glance may 
seem equal m lerms o( stories 
and foolage of male and female 
athletes. 

However, when one looks 
more closely al the coverage — 
^^peclaIly by venue reporters 
and announcers — deep-rooted 
gender biases begin to surface, 
Su^an Taylor Eastman. lU 



ivaids lo be even-handed" in 

"Costas typically follows a 
mention of a male athlete with 
the mentioning of a female, opof 
a woman's sport with a man's 
sport. He appears to tic follow- 
ing network policy or its strate- 
gy for appealing to Ihe women's 
audience," 

When coverage switches to 



report. 



howi 



Eastman, who has published 
several books on television pro- 
gramming and marketing, says 
network hosts, such as NBC's 
Bob Costas, 'bend over back- 



"embedded biases in favor of 
male athletes and men's sports 
become quite evidott ' Eastman says. 
"What a decade of Olympic 
gender studies shows is that the 

altileles and their sports over- 
whelmingly more tfian they talk 
of women athletes and their 
sports — even during women's 



events, discounting the play-by- 
play," she says. 

Venue reporters." Eastman 
says, "know far less about 
women athletes and their sports, 
so they talk of them less. 

"One ot the most egregious 
kinds of gender bias is lo com- 
pare a woman athlete lo some 
male athlete as in 'she handles 
the ball tike so and so male ath- 
lete.' 

"The audience never hears 
the male athletes compared to 
women atfdetes." 

Eastman says another pattern 
is Ihe "too frequent discussion of 
a woman athlete's husband, 
family and (male) coach, as if 
Ihcy were responsible for her 



ctiaracteristic of talk ol Ihe male 
athletes." 

Eastman contends ttiat gen- 
der bias "has long been part of 
virhjally all sports. Back in the 

announced that participation in 
sports was potentially injurious 
lo 'women's health,' and ended 
women's collegiate participa- 

"This was part of a wide- 
spread attitude that has only 
faded in recent years," 

This long history of gender 
bias. Eastman says, has estab- 
lished a "trend of devaluing and 
stereotypingathletes by gender." 

The Olympics and other pro- 
fessional sports are not Ihe only 
level of athletics where gender 
bias occurs, Eastman says. 



"Devaluing and slereotyping 
both women athletes and 
women's sports also occurs in 
collegiate and high school 

Recognition of such biases, 
she says, has led to recent action, 
such as enforcing Title K, a 1972 
law that bans sex discrimination 
in school- run sports. 

Eastman says she expects 
gender biases to be prevalent in 
the 2002 Wmter Olympics witich 
beon this week. 

Even so, she says networks 
are Irymg to be more egalitarian 

She says Itut in recent games, 
the "total minutes devoted to 
women's and men's sports in 



Page 2 The Communicalor 



Opinions 



Letters to the Editor 

This is m fespon;* (o Nalhan Diehl's arii- 
cle 'Why il's 'From (he Righi."' I have 3 few 
isiua lo misc concerning what seems to be ill- 
informed commenlary on the pari of Ihe 
author. Firsl. I have 3 probfem wilh Ihe phras- 
ing 'p5ycho. left winged liberal." 

I am nol sure Mr. Diehl realizes how 
inH.immatory this remark was- It suggests that 
capitalism, employee eiploilalion aiio Ihe ruin 
o( our environment ate the only normal put- 
suito in our sonety. "Psycho" le/I-wmgers have 
achieved gains in this country thai have bene- 
(illed all U.S. cili/ensi labor laws, property 
rights, public eduction and a multitude of 
social programs, jusi to name a few. 

I have to mention thai I am so sick of read- 
ing and hearing about former President 
CImlon's scMual indiscrelions. If every pollti- 
dan who had the audacity to have extra mari- 
tal relations was removed from office, D.C. 
would be a ghost town. A politician's private 
life 15 his own. Let's remember when George 
W. was running for office; it was leaked to the 
press hboul his former cocaine habit. Does that 

1 do believe it is lime lo discuss a real 
issue concerning our campus. What you ask? 1 
am talking about lot-shaf king. You know what 
I mean. Those despicable individuals tho sim- 
ply plop their lazy butts in the middle of the lot 
aisles and wait for a spot close lo a building to 
open up. This is simply unacceptable. These 
[MMipIc block Ihe flow of^normal traffic and just 
' waste gas. I would venture lo say they 

' ■- be part ' "- ' - '-' 

isn't a ■' 

folks! If you 



r lo sav th 

I'ly to b'c part ol the group of whini 

who say this is 

Guess what .__. 

luld likely have lo walk a lot 
irpaya 
for yout precious close spot. This should be . 



latlhcr than it is (rom Waib o: 



pay a whole lot 



tickclabic olfciuc with some large fine _. 
maybe campus-community service would be a 
cool idea. I m nol say you shouldn't be able lo 
wait lor a spot if you see someone getting in 
(heir car because hold on, I am about lo defend 
someone who was doing that. 

Just lasl week, a friend of mine saw some- 
one getting in (heir car. She put on her (urn sig- 
nal, which is cuslomarilv accepted as you have 
dibs on thai spot once the other person leaves. 
Well, as it turns out, because ol the way the 
person backed out, a car came from the olher 
direction and slole the spot. Noiv I l.now thai 
,iri.- no I.iws regiirding this issue, but thai 



neces.sarity mean he is unfit to be our president? 

Whidi leads me lo your last thought on 
this country's "glory 'years' being around the 
reign of Chief Justice Marshall, in 1833. How 
about I give you The Real Deal. Were you 
aware the Civil War did nol even start until 
1861? And It took another 55 years after t)w 
war's end for women to be granted suffrage? 

In 1348, the women's movement in this 
counlrv (some psycho left-wingers) began its 
struggle lo oblam cqualityT Tighting for proper- 
ty rights, the ability to retain their earning, 
equaldivorce rights, educational and employ- 
ment opportunities. In which case it took as 
long as the 1960s to achieve most of what Ihey 
desired more than 100 years before. 

I encourage you to walk out of the closet, 
turn the light on, leave the confines of the room 
you're locked in. step outside and absorb wtut 
is happening in the world around us. George 
W. is no one s hero. He is the single worst thing 
that has happened to this country's labor 
movement since the Reagan administration. 
Aimec M. Younger, ienwr. Labor Studio 

is rude and just plain wrong. This is typical for 
drivers on this campus, though. People drive 
hke crap and don't care about anyone. 

1 have the advantage of living close to 
campus and on occasion go through what is 
considered in this community to be a strange 
ritual of walking lo school. Sometimes I get 
really crazy and ride a bicycle. Does everyone 
know what those are? People have absolutely 
no consideration for pedestrians or cyclists. 
When one gets to a crosswalk and there is a 
person there, you should stop and let Ihem 
pass, II is so odd that people look at me funny 
when I stop for them at crosswalks. On a side 
note, does anyone el% notice a certain lack of 
sidewalks on and around campus? The cam- 
pus en\Hy does nothing to encourage pedestri- 
ans. This is my challenge lo the school— adopt 
and publicly post a pedestrian and cyclist bill 
of rights. I will use a phrase from a friend of 
mine: We (walkers and bicyclists) are not 
obstructions between you and your destina- 
tions, we are people. If people caiuiol yield, 
then I suggest that everyone who deals with 
rude drivers noodle that vehicle. Make a batch 
of noodles and when you see someone drive 
1- ,vmga noodle at them. II won't hurt. 



poorly, 1^ 



Human fascination with fame, misfortune 

Anniversanf of Earnhardt's death brings reminder of others' 



By Andrew Howand, Staff Writer 

Next weekend will rrurk Ihe 
one-year aruuversary of racing 
legend Dale Earnhardt's untime- 
ly death in lasl year's Daylona 
^00. Earnhardt's death spawned a 
flurry of mourning, interspersed 
wilh speculation as NASCAR 
launched an unprecedented 
investigation miolhesafety of Ihe 

Tliis investi^tion seemed neces- 
sary for NASCAEt. due to the 
magnitude ol losing one ol its 
biggest drivers. However, other 
drivers' deaths within the year 
pnor to Eamhanlt's were not rea- 
son enough for NASCAR lo uviti- 

safety operations. 

Many across the world were 
saddened and shocked by the 
death of one ol auto racing's 
biggest names. As drivers in aulo 
racing seem lo have come and 
gone throughout the past 10 
years, few have remained as 
strong and charismatic as 
EamhanJt. 

He had a larger-than-life 
persona, fueled by his unwaver- 
ing competitiveness and natural 
talent I hat could only be equaled 
by the likes of a few others, such 
osAndrelti, PeltyorFoyt. 

This made Earnhardt a 
household name during a lime 
when stock car racing received 
very lillle television coverage and 
was considered only a sport for 
the south. His life and unfortu- 
nate death had a tremendous 
impact and will forever leave a 
mark on the world of aulo racing. 

11 is upsclting and discour- 
aging lo note that the size and 
urgency of a response lo these 
types of problems must be 



-ere their lives lost in 

This complete lacL of social 

mess docs not start nor docs 

it end with aulo racing. 



weighed in proportion to an indi- 
vidual's celebrity status. 

Several months prior lo lasl 
year's Daytona, Kenny Invin and 

Adam Petty, grandson to racing !n our world, "it takes . 

legend RicKani Petty, were killed celebrity's illness lo draw altei*- 
on the same track. Ttiese life-end- tion to a disease of which millions 
mg wrecks were nol initiative have already been suffering, 

igh to inllu- I J ' It takes an attack 

'■'""'"*" f unimaginable pro- 



"Since 1990. at 
least 204 drivers 
in the United 
States alone have 
died in on-track 
incidents. That is 
an average of J 7 
drivers a year." 



NASCAR 

into beginning 
an investigation. 
These 
struggles go 
beyond 
NASCAR 
Toward the end 
of last season, 
CART driver 
and former 

champion Alex 
Zanardi was 
involved m a 
collision that 
took both hU legs. While his inci- 
dent may not nave yielded the 

as Earnhardt's, we still saw no 
ijuestioning of Ihe safety condi- 
tions of open wheel racing. 
Instead, these accidents are some- 
times minimized with the classic 
line, "That's racing." 

These sudden surges ol 
responsibility and caring when a 
man of Earnhardt's stature is 
killed are expected and under- 
stood, but Ihey tamuih the sinceri- 
ty of the time. 

Since 1990. at least 204 driv- 
ers in the United States alone 
have died in on-track incidents. 
That is an average of 17 drivers a 
year. Did you hear of 

their deaths? These drivers were 
some mother's child, maybe 
some child's parent and quite 
possibly snme child'' hero, .is 









It takes the loss 
of thousands of pco- 

Kle's family members, 
iends. daughters, 
soiu. parents, hiemcn 
and policemen for peo- 
ple to appreciate their 
lives. Iheir families and 
their country-. 
These shortcomings of our 
nature and typical routines are 
not so easily fixed by simply slop- 

fing whal we have ahvays done, 
requires thai people stand up 
and pay attention lo the everyday 
blemishes that taint our world. 

We must learn lo appreciate 
the importance of all life and the 
impact that any one individual 
can have on the entire world. 
People must leam and focus on 
the immcdialc world around 
them and the ob^Mcles il presents 
forti'ii'""'-m&gt;i&lt;i,. 



What is America to do with this boy? 

Thoughts on the trial of John Walker Lindh, the American Taliban 



about those teachings. Whal I am saying is that I dc 

could really sec how what he was doing would alfect or would bi 

perceived in the larger scope of what happened after Sept. 11. 

I don't think he could see past the idea that he was doing sor 
thing cxtraordinarilycounler-culture, liberal and open-minded fc 
young white kid. 

" " e fighting against the Northern Alliance as Ihe hi 
laking it out lo be. The Alliance may be 



offense s 



;o do wilh Ihe boy? 

1 wriling about the American Taliban member- 
lohn Walker Lindh. By now his tale should be tamUlar with mos 
Americans. UtCiiXsaJO-yeK old California boy who skipped out oi 
America an eventually found his way lo Afghanistan. He joined u| 

iviththeformerTalibanrcgime,and,bymany accounts, trained as, .. .. _ ..._ ^ .. ,_. ^ 

soldier. Later he was among the many Taliban prisoners ol war cap- American ally I realize many view an attack on an American ally 
hired during the short outset of fighting. an attack on America itself, but I don't view the Northern Alliar 

Lindh came lo the forefront of American attention as more or as a true American ally, like say, England. I don't think I would feel 
less a phenomenon. Here was a white kid who had turned his back Ihe same if Lindh and his compatriots had attacked British soldi 
on America and. more or less, joined up with the ranks of the enemy, irutead of Northern Alliance soldiers. 

The Taliban may nol have been much of a threat lo America when To me, Ihe Northern Alliance and their relationship with 

Lindh joined it. But it certainly became one. America are about the same as our notorious relationship wilh Ira. 

Lmdh's role in the war that ensued post-Sepl. II is slill unclear when they were our "ally." I put ally in parentheses to symbolize thi 

;ave a confession to a CIA agent while in American custody in ironic nature of Ihe word and its meaning. 

lanislan. Lindh had said he fought against Northern »,«,,.,, Iraq had, of course, been on our side when thi 

mce troops as a Taliban soldier. He claims lo have not country was pitted against its neighbor Iran Iran at this 

fought against American Iroops. • Staff ''""' I'^e late 1970s) was backed by Ihe former USSR, 

Lmdh was eventually capWred and confined to a • • Ul'sjustsay IhatbolhAmericaandlheUSSRarmedeach 

pnson,Dunngapnsonupri5uig,hewassholinlheleg To •r;j;.„ .-i* side in a bigger conflict, Ihe almost never-ending chess 

relinquish his pain from this wound he was medicated • taitOrlal, game of the Cold War. Ten years la'- ' '- 

wilh morphine. At about this lime he gave his confession , , Iraq, became public enemy number 

■ CIA agent Johnny Spann, •••••••• I'm not saying that the same will happen with the 

Lindh, at the time, had tequeslcd a lawyer, but was '""■""■ ' Northern AlUance. But it might. Afghanistan and ' 
giverione.lVhatweareseeingnow isanonslaughtollegaldis- mfani govenunent are going lo be extremely vulnerable wl _. 
prisoner of war. American troops pull out ol Ihe country and Ibcy will eventually 
""""'" "'="""■"■■■'"" "(time before the country will be expecl- 



of the fairness of Lindh's , .. 

There will be on going problems wilh America's lack ol providing pull out. It's jusI 



IVho's to say President Bush o 
n Afghanistan once more importai 



rt lo its old self as 



; to light? Who' 



Lindh with a lawyer tvhen he asked for 

Above and beyond the legal dispute I believe there is a moral 
dispute going on heir. Is Lindh a traitor lo Americi? Is what he did ivTCTig? 

I don't think Lindh is a traitor. I see him as a conllicled young to say the 

person who was searching for himself and believed he found him- leaves it? 

self in Islam. I think he thought what he was fighting for in Sometimes I feel as if America's relationships with 

Afghanistan as a Taliban was the right thing to light for— at least for him. the Middle EasI is one in which we lalch on lo the warring factio 

I Icel a kindred spirit wilh this boy. I've known many people that seems to stand for our best inlcresls. I continue lo feel th. 

who are not all that differoni from him. I'm not talking about America'sonly stake in the Middle East is oil. I continue to feel that 

Muslim extremists, but rather young, well-off kids who are drawn seeking out alternative means of fuel for our cars and tracks (vould 

&gt; rebellious behaviors. This is how 1 see Lindh. He is a rebel. He is eliminate many of our problems 

while kid who wanted lo rebel against his upbringing and his cul- I am convmced that many in the Muslim world 

ire. He wanted to be counler-culhire. I don't vieiv him as a traitor. America's foothold in Muslim countries I'm also convinced that 

At least not yet. I'm waiting until deflnitive evidence comes out that relinquishing Ihis foothold would put an end to direct attacks 

iiiarlrint. A™»ririn .^\A\^^ „, '-'ilians. If it Americans, both at home and abroad. 

any rate. I'm hoping Lindh will not emerge as a great scape- 



Lindh played a role in attacking American soldi 

■" fight that Lindh did indeed fight against Americans, then 



will be different. Then he will _ _ 
ing that he didn't light against Americans. 

■'"« not sure that he knew what he was doing. Thai is, at least 
the greater scope of things. I'm not sure Uiat he could see 
beyond this grand rebellious scheme he'd gotten himself into, I'm 
not saying that he didn't ultimately believe in Islam and Ihe leach- 
"igs oi the Taliban- He probably did. He probably fell very strongly 



But 1 have a feel- goat in this conflict. I'm hoping he 



fair and just legal pro- 



ceedings and that Americans — especially potential 
come to view him as a confused kid who got sucked up 



Lessons on moral improvement 

There is an tnleresling statement in the Constitution of the 
Slate of Indiana. It's nol anything major, but I'm not totally co 
vinced that our slale legislators are doing Iheir duly to provide 
the type of education called ioj in the CopstiluHon itself. In Article 
8, Section !. it reads. "Knowledge and learning, general diffused 
throughout a com- 

From the 



munily, being essen- 
■"-■ 'o Ihe prescrva- 
of a free gov- 
it sBould 



be the dut)- of the 
General Assembly 
to encourage, by all 



Right 




Now I don't know about the teachings you gn'w up with at 
your public high school, but I know for sure'lh.it at myhigh 
school, we were not taught anything about moral improvement. 
Actuallv. I didn't learn anything at all about morals during ray 
high sen ooieducalion. 

Only a few short years .igo, many students who grew up 
itching "Channel One" in high schools, were greeled by our 
nation's president, not only our polilical leader, but our moral 
and ethical leader, who just so happened lo be an adulterer, a liar 
and a perjurer. Not to hold anylhmg against former President 
Qinlon, but he certainly was not a quality moral or elhical leader. 

Bui, you may be thinking, 'I Ihoyght this was about Ihe slale 
of Indiana?' Well, if the stale isn't providing us any guidance for 
moral improvement, as mandaled by Ihevery Core^titutionollhe 
Stale of Indiana, then the shidents wdl find Iheir morals elsewhere. 

1 am lucky that I was r.iised in a loving two-p,irenl fiome, 

1 in a wonderful Christian church wilh wonder fun ri ends, 
all who hold Ihe highest morals. I learned my morals from people 
who nol only preached morals, but also lived them. 

What is this state becoming, if our elected legislators refuse 
tofollow their duly as outlined in the vervdociimenlthatcrcalei 
' basis lor their job dcscriplion? 

From where did you leam your morals? 1 suppose it is possi- 
ble that 1 am the only one who never encounterwl irislniclion on 
moral improvement when 1 was in school, What about here at 
IPI^V? Since we are a slate-funded school, we should slill be 
learning ideas for moral improvement. Have you learned about 
moral i.mptovement since you first began attending IPFW? I 
'now I haven't. 

No! only should Iheleachingsof the f.iculty of IPHV lead 
ward moral improvement, but the very environment should be 
conducive to moral improvement. Every activity, sport and stu- 
dent group should, in some way. be in accordance with improv- 
ing Ihe morals of IPFW's shidenl body. If any campus jctivily 
lends itself to weak morals, I would think il was an illegal activi- 
t least according to Ihe Constitution of the Stale of Indiana. 
So don'l be afraid lo speak up in any of your cl.i.'vses, and steer 
the conversaUon to^vard the improvement of 
morals, but your classmates' as well. 



)l only your oi 



Editorial Board 



Contact Us! 



Editorial Policy 



Kulhy Uclagrangc, Editor 

Dawn Early, Managing Editor 

Todd llumm, Sewj Editor 

Jonah CrLimore. fValuft-j Editor 

Rencc Ttiompson, Special Stclions Ediic 

Adam Spklh. Sporti Editor 

Dtaiuri Zhie, Photo Editor 

Adam Taylor, Copy Editor 

Brand on Schwnne, Rtporxer 

Andy WcUle, Rtpontr 

Ella SlulxiTuiii, Advertising Manager 

Doric Reynolds. Publisher 



The Communicator 

Suile 215. Walb Student Union 

2101 E.Coliseum Blvd. 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

stupaper@holmes.ipfw.edu 

Ediior 481-6584 

Publisher: 481-6585 

Advenising: 481-6583 

Fax:481-6045 



Unsigned editorials are Ihe opinions of The 
Communicator. The opimons eipressed do not nec- 
essarily reflect the views oi IPf^V, iLs employees or 
lis student body, Acolunm Ls solely the opmion of 
its author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from 
its readers. Letters lo the Editor .ind guest columns 
must be signed, dated and accompanied by a cur* 
rent, valid address, phone number, class standing or 
title and major. Letters without these requirements 
will not be considered for publication, 

AIJ submissions made via e-mad will be veri- 
fied bv phone or in person. Submissions via mail or 
e-mail without this information will not be pub- 
lished, ejcepi under eitraordinary circumstances. 



Addresses and phone numbers will never be pub- 
lished. 

Submissions must be typewritten, 
double-spaced and no more than 400 words. 
Deadline is 6 a.m. on Ihe Monday prior to the print 
date lo allow for timely consideration. 

The editorial board of The Communicator 
reserves the right lo edit all submissions for length, 
grammar, style and clarity. Letters deemed libelous 
by Tho Communicator's editorial board will nol be 
published under any circumstances. 



Opinions 



PjgL- 3 The Coir 



What's up this week: 



W ^(jn . e , sday. Feb. 6 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer Meeting, noon- 12:30p.m., Neff 257 

Anthropology Club Speaker Series, noon- 1:00p.m., KT G46 

Pagan Sludenl Alliance Meeting, WU:i4-116, 7:30-1 0:00p.m. 

United SexualiHes Prism Discussion Group, Walb 222-226, 7:00-9:00p,m. 

Thursday. Feb. 7 

Campus Ministry Board meeting, 6-7:30p.m., Walb 114-116 

Campus Ministry Bible Study, noon-lp.m., Walb 114 

Dflta Gamma Continuous Open Bidding, 5:30-9:00p.m., Walb Fireside Lounge 

Delta Gamma Meeting, 7: 30-9 :30p.m., WU 110 



Friday. Feb. 8 

InlerVarsity Christian Fellowship Soldiers of the Cross Training and Prayer, 
Wnib 222-226, 4:00-6:30 p.m. 

InterVarsity Christian Fellowship Meeting, 7:00-9:30p.m., Walb 012 (Blue 
Room) 



Sunday. Feb. 10 

Dt'lt&gt;i Sigma Pi meeting. Walb 110. 5-9p.m, 

Pi Beta Phi Meeting, Walb 222-226, 4-9: 30p.m. 

Campus Ministry Bible Study Walb Blue Room, 2:30-4:00p.m. 

Phi Kappa Theta Meeting, Walb 114, 6:00-9:00p.m. 

Delta Ganuna Meeting, WTJ G21, 5:00-9:00p.m- 

Fellowship for Christian Athletes Meeting, Walb Blue Room, 7:15-8 

Monday. Feb. 11 

Campus Ministry Bible Study, noon-lp.m,. Walb 110 



Hispanos Unidos Walb Ballroom Dance Class, 7:00-10:00p.m. 
SCREAM MeeHng. 12:00-1 :00p.m., WU 222 



Tuesday. Feb. 12 

Inten.'arsity Christian Fellowship Tea Break, Walb 222, n:00-l:00p,m. 



Wednesday. Feb. 13 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer Meeting, noon-12:30p.m., Neff 257 

Newman Catholic Group Catholic Mass, ll:30-2:00p.m.. Walb G2I 

Anthropology Club Speaker Series, noon - 1:00p.m., Kt G46 

Pagan Student Alliance Meeting, WU 114-116, 7;30- 10 :00p.m. 

United SexualiHes Prism Discussion Group, Walb 222-226. 7:0O-9;0Op,m, 

Accounting Society, CEO of Group Dekko speaking, 4:30-5:30p.m., KT 123 

Information courtesy of the Office of Student Life, from their webpage at: 
http://www.ipfw.edu/stulife/calendars/events/Feb_eve.htm 



A tale of eggs and love 

A young girl's ability to maintain faith and trust 



By Slephanie Sample, Staff Writer 

I will never (orgel Ihe nrst time thai my tieart 
was broken. The incidcnl occuntrd over one of 
many long, hoi sumjners in my early childhood, 
when my family still migrated norlh lo our lake 
collage at Ihe Ursl ttint of sulUy heal. The houfo i; 
one of to Itial croMiu the top of a secluded hill, sit- 
uated between Iwo of three lakes connetted by 
small charmcls. 

WKit makes the location of the hill so special 
is Ihat it allbws one lo view Ihe water from virtu- 
ally every vantage point, save a sinp oF land wide 
enough lor a gravel road framed by two quaini 
summer collages. 

Being a curious child, I was constantly enter- 
tained by the many plants and animals Ihal also 
called ims enchanled place their summer home. 

On this particular morning. I woke suddenly 
to the sound of a tree falling. Even if you have 
never heard a liee fall, as I had not. you immedi- 
ately rccogniie Ihe strained crock, crack, 
crnrraaaaack of a tree breaking under its own 
weight. The undeniable sound was swiftly fol- 
lowed by a large splash. 

I ran lo the window in my bare feel and saw 
the long-dead remains of an old willow sinking 
slowly in Ihe mucky-grccn shallows in front oF our 
home. I had lo invcsligale. 

When I got lo shore, I discovered that Ihe wil- 
low had cracked right at ground level. All Ihal 
remained was a hole in the grass, fenced wilh tall 
splinleis and lined deep in the earth with rolten, 
pulpy tool flesh. 

Deep in Ihe abyss I saw several oblong while 
eggs. Ynu cannot imagine the wonder t felt. I 
looked around nervously, making sure Ihat none 
of the neighbor kids happened to be around. If 
they had seen me, Ihey would have taken Ihe eggs 
from me and performed some sort of perverse sci- 
entific experiment on Ihem, 

I only look one egg, I don't know why. I must 
have thought that to take more than one would be 
greedy. Al any tale. I left Ihe others there in the 
hole. They were later found and destroyed by lit- 
tle hellions. I got my egg home safely and buried 
it in the flower ganJen out back. 

By lunch, 1 couldn't lake it anymore — I had lo 
tell someone about my secret treasure. 

I brought the hllle tow-headed boy from 
jcross the hill lo the garden. 1 sal him down in a 
folding ctuir and lold him Ihal I had something 
very wonderful, special and Fragile to show him. 
He seemed disinterested in what I was saying and 
amazed by a mosquito bite on his ankle. 

I unearthed the egg. I held it cupped in my 
little hands carefully, as if lo protect it. He liked it. 



cupped palms to his sweaty hand, and al llul 

Al thai inslant, I was able lo foresee the 
events that would soon follow. 

I stood paralyied, frozen (vilh fear. We made 
eye conljcl. I opened my moulh and 1 said it. I still ; 
wonder if he would have done it if I ludn't 
screamed, "No! Don't throw ill" Bui he did, I ran 
aivay crying, broken-hearted. 

1-ookmg back il seems so sweel and mnocent, 
but at Ihal age Ihis soti of experience is major 
drama. Who exacUy did Ihis kid Ihink he (vas, 
smashing my egg? [ wanled to smash his tit He 
Precious Moments doll face in. 

Don't worry, 1 didn'l do it. Fortunately, 
another attribute of early childhood is a shorl : 
attention span. I got over it quickly 

Years later I quil giving the little boys my 
eggs. Now I gamble with hearts instead. It lakes a 
tremendous amount of trust and faith in the good- 
ness of a person to let Ihem mio your personal or 
romanhc life. 

In Ihe beginning, we arc young and excited. 
We 'give our hearts lo people fcarlcssly. 
Somelimes, we even give people out hearts, 
knowing ttiat Ihey will be broltcn. 

Such is Ihe way with an exposed heart. So 
much easier is it to hide all of Ihis love and build a 
shell for ourselves, 

A heart Ihat has been broken too many times 
lakes a thick shell lo disguise. The fear of feeling 
Ihat pain again seems unbearable, and pulling it 
l&gt;ack together seems harder and harderwilh each rail. 

Our protection oflers safely without salislac- 
lion because we make ourselves very hard to 
touch. No person can Iruly experience love and 



sharmg ifieir 



kindness without first sharmg Iheir own wilh oth- 
ers. VVhalgood is il to us alone if il means nothing? 

The lucky ones fmd someone strong enou^ 
to break through their shell and get to Ihe good 
shjif waiting ir«ide — trust and love. Some slay in 
their shell foievcr, never allmving themselves lo love. 

A very strong and wise few keep giving 
through the pain. They break free of the armor or 
refuse lo build it in the first place. These are the 
true survivors— Ihe true kinjp and queens in Ihe 
kingdom of love and happiness. 

What about the egg? Well, 1 buried it— again. 
Less than a week later. I woke up and went to 
check its status. 

There, in the flower garden, was a tiny turtle, 
no bigger than my thumb. 1 named him Snappy. 
His shell was damaged by the crash. II came lo a 
funny point on lop thai looked and fell like a 
raised mountain range on a globe. He lived for 
seven years and 1 loved him — scars and all. 



hold il." I answered, I rolled it 







IPFW^ 



Campus 

^ Calendar 

for Feb. 7-20, 2002 



Weigh to Go.. .Weight Loss Pronram. 

WU g21 , noon; for information, call 
6647 or e-mail tillapaugh. 
7 'Think Like a Winner, " 

14 "Lose Fat v/ith Fitness." 

7 Faculty and Staff Midwinter 
Breakfast and Auction, WU 224, 

7:15 a.m.; for information, call 

6963. 

Menopause Pathways: "Living 

vflthDaily Pain,"WU222, 7- 

9-p.m.; discussion follows 

presentation. Forinformalfon, 

call 260-373-7375. 

French and Francophone Film 

Series: Kirikou et la Sorciere 

(Kirikau and the Sorceress), with 

English subtitles, Cinema Center, 

7:30 p.m.; for information, call 

6632. 

Men's volleyball, GC, 7 p.m. 

8 Ball State University. 

9 Ohio State University. 

15 Quincy University. 

16 Lewis University. 

9 Law School Admission Test 
(LSAT), WU 126, 8 a.m.; for 
information, call 6600. 

11 Video Series: Africans in 
America, WU 114, noon; also 
Feb. 18 and 25. 



13 Institutional SAT (ISAT), KT 148, 

1 p.m.; for information, call 6600, 

14 Men's basketball vs. Grace 

College, GC, 7:30 p.m. 

15 Picasso at tfie Lopin Ag;7e, V/T, 
8p.m.; also Feb. 16, 21, 22, and 
23. For information, call the box 
office, 6555. 

Hockey Club vs. Flndlay, 
Memorial Coliseum, 10:30 p.m., 
free. For information, call 6921 . 

16 Lunch with an IPFW Scientist: 
"Volcanoes, "Anne Argast, Science 
Central, 11:30a. m.-1 p.m.; $10, 
nonmembers; S5, members. For 
reservations, call 260-424-2400. 
Women's basketball vs. Lipscomb 
University, GC, 1 p.m. 

19 ADA teleconference; "Status of 
Rulemaking-ArchitecturalTrack," 
WU 114, 2 p.m.; for information, 
call 6657. 

20 Annual Higher Education Day at 
theStatehouse, Indianapolis, 

8 a.m. -6 p.m.; for Information, 

call 6807. 

College-Level Examination 

Program {CLEP), KT 232, 

8:30 a.m.; for information, call 

6600. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Features 





Pholo by Stephanie Sample Slalt Wnler 
Todd Taylor works wilh pieces of gl&lt;3!^s &gt;o create art. 

Glassblowing Fort Wayne style 

Local artists explain the fires that fuel their work 

By Sl&lt;.th,imi.' S.implL\ SUff Writer 

People Blood for hours, 
packed like sardines, lo hear gla's 
artist, Dave Chihuly, speak la_ti 
Thursday nighl, 

Liltle do most people knoiv. 
Ihcrc is 3 place wliere glassblowers 
learn, work ind %vi supplies right 
here in Fort Wayne. Many people 
aren'l even aw.iie ol its ewslence. 
Todd Taylor. 25, started Colored 
Sands three years ago at its original 
location on North Wells Street. 

The business has since moved 
to 17tJ3 Courlland, not (ai from the 
old location. The glassworking 
method taught and performed nl 
Colored Sands is called lampwork- 
ing. This type of glasswork goes 
back lo the 17th century, but was 
not widely used by artisans until 
alter the Great Depression, 

The style consists of usirig torches that pro- 
duce 4,000 degree flames lo melt and shape pre- 
made hard -el ass rods. Colored glass rods, poiv- 
ders and dicTioric glass are used to add colors and 
different visual effols to each piece. All colors are 
produced with differvnl metals. For cuample. gold 
makes a rcddwh color. 

Taylor first started lampivorking while fol- 
lowing The Grateful Dead on lour. He basically 
taught himself out of necessity 

"II was a way to earn some money," Taylor 
said. Seven years later ar\d he's still in the lamp- 
working business. He's continued wilh il because 
it soils his lUcslylc. "I can't sec myself doing any- 
thing else," he said. 

Although he is modest aboul Ihe artistic 
aspect of his glass ivorks, Taylor's pieces speak for 
themselves— whimsical, fluid, beautiful. When 
asked what he thinks about while he is working, 
he replied, "I take evcrythine 1 Lnow about glass 
and fociA it on the individual piece." 

The physical demands of lampworking are 
great, but the mental demands cause the pressure 
that Todd feeLs the most, 

"It's mentally exhausting. Afler you blow 
glass for sii hours, you go home anci you fetii 
beat — mentally beat and drained," Taylor said. 

However, don't come to Colored Sands look- 
ing to buy any glass items. The business mainly 
involves the wholesale of raw materials. In fact. 
Colored Sands is the only wholesaler of this type 
in the area. The site also offers two-day classes for 
beginners, ranging from S250 to SMO, and tents 
studio time to focal glassblowers. 

Although Colored Sands doesn't sell any 
merchandise, the items made there arc sold in a 
number of places. One lormer apprentice lo Taylor 
at Colored Sands is Tim Tsiguloll. He has gone on 
lo put together a studio in his garage. 
Lampworking has been his sole source of income 
for the past eight months. 

"It" takes a lot of time and hard work just to 
gel to me point where you have enough skill to 
make items good enougK for sale. Then it takes 
even more time to earn the money lo buy the 
equipment and supplies lo be self-sufficient," 
TsigulofC said. 

Tsigulolf is currently working on a website. 



Photo by Stephanie Sample, Staff WnlBi 
The works of Todd Taylor, glass artist. 



when; he plains load vertise and sell glass menzhandise, 

"Todd is the standard," Tsiguloff said. He 
compares all of his pieces to his mentor's work. 
Unlike Taylor, Tsiguloff is more vocal about the 
artistic nature of lampworking, "Art is subjective. 
It's art if you believe it is. The art comes, basically, 
when you enjoy it and get lost in it." 

Tsiguloff is openly passionate about his work, 
"It's amazing — gazing into the hot glass. I get lost 
in il and the next thing you know, I've got this 
beautiful thing in front of me." 

Tsigulolf s ivife, Penny, is a student at IPRV. 
She learned the basics of lampworking from her 
husband. 

"She learned in six weeks what look me 
monttis to grasp," Tsiguloff said proudly, adding 
that some have a naturafmelinalion for the craft. 



rl of lampworking is something anyone can 
However, lampworking is not for evcryi 



upon by I 
"We're km 



"It takes patience and pi . 
Taylor. When asked to define the personality type 
of an average glassblower, he responded, 'reclu- 
sive," It sounds derogatory, but according to 
Taylor, there is a lot of truth in it. The'studios are 
dark and dungeon-like. The work itself is hot and 
dangerous. However, to these individuals, the end 
result IS worljijhe darkness and danger,, 

Lampworking is somewhat looked down 
' V Ihe rest of the glass-art community, 
kind of the red-headed stepchild of the 
uidustr)'," said Tsiguloff. Most lamp workers make 
their livings selling glass beads, vases, pendants, 
marbles and other items. Despite the lack of 
respect from the rest of the glass- industry, lamp- 
working claims a large market and brings in bil- 
lions of dollars armually, 

Taylor and his glassblowing prolSgfo are true 
artists m their own right. Onginally, this article 
was intended to tie together the work of these peo- 
ple and Chihuly's visit. However, afler meeting 
Taylor and Tsiguloff and learning about what they 
do. combining the two areas would be an Injustice 
to both parties, 

Taylor and his friends at Colored Sands are 
down-to-earth, approachable and very sen 
aboul what they do. For information on class 
times and schedules, call Colored Sands at (260) 
413-1689. 



Curtain Caff 




(Brancfon 
Scfiwarze 



"Monte Crista cnter- 
tiihis with a classic 
touch" 



friendly Utile letter 
for an older res 
Marseilles. France, named 



I.11S L= Colonel Wllelorl. wh. 
pnimpih M'l^es Danles Atte 
VillL'iijri Jfcidts Dantes i 
inncw;nl. he lets him go, only 
Id suJdi?nK experience a 

Dantes then finds him- 
st'tf in the infamous, but per- 
haps fictitiously so. prison. 

Chateau d' If, 

In the prison. 
■.[■ends the duration ol his 
~i.iv aria|&gt;'zing the possible 

.ind of cour^f. how lo get out, 

II IS at this point thai Ihe 

film -Variety" calls 'a lavL-Ji- 

ly mounted and appealingly 

old-fashioned swashbuckler 

comes on full for«' as Panics 

transforms himself into The 

\vith ,1 Count of Monte Cnslo" and 

ilended becomes a nefarious noble who 

proceeds to exact revenge for 

ill the pain and agony endured 

■""" '■ " ■ ■"■ -1 SO 



lived in this n 



,andr. 



Dum 



swashbuckling literary i 
piece 'has once again oeen 
transported lo the silver screen 
in "The Count ol Monle 
Cristo." directed by Kevin 
Reynolds, 

fames Caviezcl ("The 
Thin Red Line." "Frequency") 
plays good guy and aspiring 
sea captain, Edmond Danlcs. 
The character starts off the film 
by rowing ashore the Isle of 
Elba iviih his ailing captain in 
search of a doctor. 

Also involved in the 
escapade wilh Danlcs and the 
sickened captain is life-long 
Iriend Femand played by Guy 
Pierce ("Memento"). 

But these fir^t few scenes 
iif the film arc fraught vviih 
danger as Elba is the home of 
the feared and imprisoned 
European conqueror. 
Napoleon Bonaparte. All those 
who venture on shore arc 
doomed to be shot on sight out 
of Ihe fear of aiding Ihe emper- 

Dantes is a devious man, 
as confirmed by his survival of 
Elba and the numerous other 
struggles his character must 
confront throughout the film. 

When Dantes leaves Elba, 



pleasant French ' 
Femand sees the exchange. Alcatraz. 

Upon returning lo "The Count of Monle 

" ■ ■ ■ Cristo" is the best 

swashbuckler 



Dantes' heroism 
on Ihe voyage is 
reivarded by 

being made a cap- 
lain by the owner 
of Ihe shipping; 
firm, much lo Ihf 
dismay ol 

Dangiars. the seen sincB 

ship's first male. 
Dangl; 



'The Count of 

Monte Cnsto" is 
(tie best swash- 
buckling I've 



of 

After his pro- 
is off lo find 



"Bully Hayes" 
with Tommy 
Lee Jones. 



TTus Jay Wolpert 

tion of Dumas' 
classic is a PG-13. 



n-ups ( 



.■ ^^^^^^^^^^^^"^ are currently 

love of his life who he intends sweeping box offices acros; 

to marry as soon as he can America, 

affonJ a ring D a n t e s a n d It was so nice lo watch a filrr 

Mercedes meet oil the rocky with well-wrillen dialogue 

shoreline and not long'after excellent casting and a tightly 
comes Femand. " '" 

Fcrnand also lusts 



Mercedes, but he realizes 
Mercedes belongs to Dantes. 
So now, jealousy is Fernand's 



1 and cleverly presented 
plot, and now Ihat I think 
about il. a movie without vul- 



language, 

The only bad thing about 
me movie is that it came out so 
Aftcr'a little more liquor early in the year. By Ihe time 
than should have been con- the Oscars come around for 
sumed by either man, Dangiars 2002, it won't receive the recog- 
and Femand meet up, along nition it deserves. 
with their jealousy andbetrayar 
The local long arm of the 





Features 



Fort Wayne slain 



Hard-hitting fieavy metal 
rocliers tiold down The Fort 



orison 
vcnucr where the Icslival 
mg plsce to find something to c^t 
]usl before the band was scheduled 
loplay. 

After finding lood, I attempted 

to walk back Lnio the venue. The 

guards a( the eale, however. 

inforined me [ couldn't go back m. 

1 tried to watch tlic show from Ihc 

„^ ^ , „ ^ , n._ i u sidewalk outside the fenced in 

Photo by Jason Savage. Guest Photographer compound, bui was agoin 

Slayer takes Ihc stage in front of a capacity crowd at Piere's in the informed by more cuards to move 

Markelplace of Canterbury. Tom Araya slands front and center al the mike ^'""5 Finally. I walked around lo 

Irol of Ihc beal from behind his drum set. "■^''''^''*i''.^?•'^.^*!^e* .'."JiS"' 



tracks Irom its new album. The band 



thai fiad the crosvd singing alcHig lo the 
lyncs and pla)-ing air guitar lo the nffs. 
Fans were also treated to a special 



5 Dave Lombardo n 



Uy T odd Han 



Slayer tans turn out ui droves every 
lime Ihc band comes anywhere neat 
Ihcir homes. They are diehards. They'll 
" n up al concerts even when the ' 



any kind of container 
Ihal can be used as a 
blunl weapon. For csam- 
ple, all Ihc beer bolllcs 
al Piere's or 



Making my way inio 
Ihe main stage area of 
the bar, ! stood as lar 
back as I could all the 
D the right of the 
stage near the doors. 
Despite my self-imposed 
dislance, I still had a 
good view. One of the 
first things 1 noticed 
when Slayer took Ihc 
slage shortly after 
Connecticut-based nu- 
melal ouKil Hatebrccd 
finished their set. was 
that something about 
guiUrisI Kerry King was 
different. 

The last t 



front oF one of 
the shops 



Broad ripple PI; 

regular Friday 

IS playing on a week night ivilh freez- Saturday ivight wet 
ing rain predicted to ice up the roads spicuous by 
Just about the lime Ihe show ends. " ' 

Slayer taru are also some of Ihe most 
intimidating and ominous people 
you'll ever meet. It's not just Ihe profu- 
sion ol tatloos, picrcincs and snaved 
heads that make you (eel their prcs- way 

ence. It's more the hateful looks on 

Iheir (aces. I didn't sec a soul smile at 
Slaver's concert Thursday at Piere's. I 
didsec plenty ofenormous men staring 
me down, just itching to slam against 
me and everyone else should a mosh 
pit erupt. 

The band'^ fans also have lo be pal- 
led down before being permitted to 
enter Ihe venue. While one of Ihc 
Piere's bouncers was looking al my ID, 
he told me that the bouncer about to 

pat me down would "rub my shoulders 

!( 1 asked him nicely." Not sure if it was The last time 1 saw Slayer was ,il Ihe ance of having a horn protruding li 

a joke. I laughed an&gt;'way and headed Tattoo the Earth Festival in 2000 at a his chm. King is memorable enough 
Ifuough the old Crooners karaoke sec- show near Detroit, It ivas one oi the with his sleek, la I too-covered shaved 
tion of Piere's, most grueling concerts I've ever been head and massive pit bull frame. The 

Slayer fans also aren'l sold alcohol in lo. I didn't actually see Slayer's show. I extended goatee made him all the more 

menacing. 



a glimpse ol Slayer emerging from 
n RV parked behind the slage. t 
didn't see 

them play, but 
■ ■ .jlly 



Slayer 
Stats 



-Formed in 1962 

-Recorded with Ice-T 
In 1990 

-CBS Records 
refused lo distribute 
the album "Reign In 
Blood" due to lis 
graphic nature. 



' then 



me back in. 

That son 

thing that w 



gave 



I managed to get into the show at 
Pieic'.s by a stroke of luck. A woman 
from Slayer's American Records label's 
parent, Island/Def ]am, called the 
newspaper Ihe previous week, request- 
ing we put together a package on Ihe pcrfor 
show in encfunge for Irec tickets. Not mer 
wanting to waste Ihe tickets, 1 opted— rc|oined the group (or Its current tour 
after the rest of the staff quickly alter drummer Paul Bostaph quit the 
declined — to go, band. 

I'm not much of a Slayer Ian. I like Rock drummers the world over now 

the band's hard music— specially its have a chance to audition lor Slayer as 
Ruitars. I'm just not a Ian of the band's the band seeks a replacement (or 
iyrics.Thelatcst album is entitled "Cod Boslaph, Currently, Ihe band is con- 
Hales Us AH." Il is sprinkled, ol course, ducting a dnimmer search, auditioning 
with rclcrences to the band's loss of primarily non-music professional 
(ailh. The band's website incorporates a 
Flash-driven animation of a burning 
Bible, Presumably. Slayer members 
inclined, giv 
this and olhi 
that have appeared on 
some ol the band's past 
albums. The combination 
ol the two make for a mes- 
sage that, lo me al least, ii 
uninteresting. 

Some of the best things 
that happen at a concert 
don't happen on stage. One 
man at the Slayer show 
decided lo climb up one of 
the ceiling support poles 
positioned richl in front ol 
Ihc stage. Climbing unlil 
his arms got weak, he let 
go and fell backward on the 
crowd. 1 couldn't see if he 
cracked his head open on 
the floor or if someone 
caught him. 1 don't think 
anyone there ivould have 
minded the spilled blood. 

I also noticed a man who 
looked as if he had gotten 
Il right down the center of 



his r 



vith a 



flattened and 
bore a straight scar doivn 
its length. 

Slayer played many 





Photo by Jason Savage. Guest Phcographi 
Lead guitarist Kerry King bells out another tune to a packed crowd at Piere's Thursday 
night. 



I'leaseConlacl. #1-m- a ^'^ ^-^ W m ^m m ^-W-w^^ S7 per enhtmn inch 

2l'J-481-(i383 ■ 'I A fcTI L^ m 1 ill 1 J 1 1 *kJl .Ad deadlines are even Friday 2pm r. 

The Communicator .Advcrlisine % J I J /% ^^^^ I l&lt; I l^jl #^Y fnllovvinn Wcdncsdny i.ssuc. 

I- lln .Slul/nian ^^^ * "^ * * '^^ K-^J— M " » -^ * ^ ►^-^ Any (iirestions nienic call; 48l-f.SK.1 



THERE'S A FINE LINE BETWEEN THE 
20TH CENTURY AND THE 21ST. IT'S 
CALLED IRS e-A7e for Business. 



RENTAL 
PROPERTIES 



TRAVEL 
SPRING BREAK 



TRAVEL/ SPRING BREAK 



mmmmma 



S35a/nio. induda all ailiiia 
l.iici[«J In TliE Rjipidi of KdTcr Cmk 
\'«y CoDilDrtiblt Lrrini! 

. Plott Call: 4W-503» 






Visit Tbe Communicalor on the web: 

.snident.iprw.edu/~stiipaper 
Read past issues • Special content not 
found in printed issues 



Spring Break Tickets! 

Gel a FREE MTV audimcc licktx la scleci shows v,hen you boot your 

Spring Break itirougli SludcDl CIty-com! Go lo MTv'coin or a 

StudcniCirycom al 1-800-1443 fordclallsl 

Tours and tickets art Umftcd. 




P.,c.T.eco„„„„,„,„. Sports 

Super Bowl XXXVI, the Patriot Bowl 



By Adjm 5pieth. Sporb Editor 

AflfiScpl- ll,a(lCTlhE^anlhr3i tare 
and during Ihe conlmued battle 
azaiml Icrrorism. Ihe dtacm of Ihe 
United Stales were eagerly awaiting 
Ihc year's Ktcalesl sporting spectacle. 
It was only lilting IhJt Ihe New 
England Patriots would meel Ihe St. 
Loub Rams on such a "patnotic" day. 
Wilh 3 Ictronst attack highly pos- 
sible, fans were told to show up al the 
Supcrdame in New Orleans hours 
before opening kickoff. Heavy, mili- 



and blue flocked lo sec their teams 
compete in Ihe rnosl coveted game in 
American sports. 

TTlc New England Patriots, 
although titling, may have been the 
unlikely hereies. A former sinlh-round 
pick and fourth-string quarterback. 
Tom Brady, led his learn onto the 
Superdome turf. 

The Patriots chose not lo bo intro- 
duced as individuals, but as a team, 
and they played as such. It was proba- 
bly the mosi linporlanl component in 
their quest toward defeating the most 
talented team in the NFL 

The Patriots' former slarling QB, 
Drew Bledsoe, had been injured early 
in the season, A former Michigan 
standout. Brady came on ;u the great- 
est backup QB in the NFL. 

New England coach Dill 
Bdlichick decided lo ^t.iv wiih 



Brady's winning ways even after the 
SI 02 million. Ihreo-lime Pro Bowler 
Bledsoe hjd recovered. Il was proba- 
bly Ihe eulsiest and greatest decision 
the coach had ever made during his 

Even alter Bledsoe came in lo 
throw for a touchdown and preserve 
Ihe win over Ihe Pittsburgh Sleelers in 
Ihe AFC Championship Game, 
Bellichick retained his faith in the 
youngesi Quarterback ever lo start m a 
Supcrbowl. And Brady would carry 
his Pats to Supcrbowl victory and 
snag the game MVP in the process, 

Bledsoe, however, remained on 
the sideline as a reliable backup, a role 
he had played all season. He had been 
in this position before. He had led Ihe 
Patriots lo Ihe Super Bowl, and he 
had lost. 

So Ihe (lame was passed lo the 
younger man. It was Brady's turn for 
glory, and he found it. 

As for Bledsoe, the victory was 
still sweel. Although unearned, he 
deserved the championship neverlhe- 
less. Noonccanarguehislalent, butil 
remains lo be seen whether he will 
eonlinue his career in New England. 
Many are predicting he will request lo 
leave the Patriots /or Chicago. 

Coach Bellichick had a game plan 
lo stop Ihe Rams' high-powered 
offense kd by season MVP Kurt 
Warner and offensive player of Ihe 
year Marshall Faulk. He knew his 
leam had lo put good pressure on 



Warner, shui down Faulk and create 
big turnovers. His team was success- 
ful in all three areas. 

Although Warner's numbers were 
better than Brady's (iru:luding a rush- 
ing touchdown), he was picked off 
twice, one that i4as returned for the 
game's firsi touchdown by Ty Law in 
the second quarter. He would have 
fumbled, had it not been (or a penalty 
flag agauist Ihe Palriols. 

For some reason. St. Louis coach 
Mike Martz decided not to use Ihe 
league's best ruiuiing-i&gt;ack lo his 
fullest potential. Faulk rushed for 76 
yardso/f ofahmilednumber of pbys. 

And probably Ihe most i m por- 
ta n I strategy, creating big turnovers, 
was eventually the game winner. The 
Rams coughed up the pigskm three 
times which led lo 17 points bv New 
England. Law and Otis Smith both 
managed to intercept Warner, ivhile 
Antwan Harris hit Rams' receiver 
Ricky Prochl to create a fumble. 

Things ivere looking grim for St. 
Louis until the fourth quarter when 
Warner led an impressive late drive to 
tie Ihe game at 17, However, his drive 
moyhave been loo quick, as it allowed 
Brady and Ihe Patriots to push the ball 
into field-goal territory. New 
England's clutch placc-kickcr. Adam 
Vinatieri, booted a perfect -IS-yard 
kick to seal a Patriot win in one of the 
greatest Superbowls ever. 

What a treat for America! 



Basketball Highlights 



Men^s: 

Dons Get Fifth W on the Season 



Women^s : 

IPFW Falls Twice to Cleveland State 



Fort Wayne, IN: 

The IPFW men's baskelball leam improved their 
record lo 5-17 Monday night as they hosted Concordia 
University at the Gales Sports Center. 

The Dons shot a respectable 31-62 al SO percent 
from the field and 40 percent from beyond the arc. 
Another winning advantage came from out- rebounding 
Ihe Cardinals 37-26. 

Senior Nick Wise led all scorers with 22 points. 
Freshman guaid Terry Collins continued his hot streak 
with 17 points. Junior Jeremy King added to Ihe 
M.islodon scoring wilh 10 points, along with 13 boards, 

Concordia's leading scorers were Aaron Temes 
and Marv Fox. Jr, v^ith la points and 10 points, respec- 
livcly. 

Final score: IPFW Bl, Concordia 60. 

Be sure lo catch the Mastodons' next home game as 
Ihey host Grace College on Feb. 14 at 7:30 p.m. 



Cleveland, Ohio: 

After losing to Cleveland State a I the Memorial 
Coliseum on Jan. 28, Ihe IPFW .women's basketball team 
was hoping lo travel to Cleveland and avenge their ear- 
lier loss. Untorlunately, Ihe same situation played out. 

The Dons were unable to shut down the Vikings' 
talented junior guard Erika Roudebush. who led all 
scorers wilh 21 points. Sophomore Ashley Schrock fol- 
lowed Roudebush in scoring with 19 points for 
Cleveland Stale. They also out-rebounded IPFW J6-t0 

The Dons were led by Courtney Nicely wilh 17 

Eolnls on 6-10 shooting from the field, including two 
om beydnd Ihe arc. Amy Meyer and Teeara Dudley 
-'-- ached double-figures with 13 points and 12 




Mastodon Scoreboartj 



Men's Baskelball 

Thursday I /31 MIDDLE TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSFTV L 80-90 



LIPSCOMB UNlVERSrrV 



Women's Basketball 

Thursday 1/31 

Men's Volleyball 

Saturday 1/26 
Friday 2/1 

Men's Hockey 

Friday 1/25 



tt Youngsloivn Slate Urwversily 



UNIVERSITY Of RNDLAV 
At Mcrcyhurst" 



At Muskegon Community College W 8-7 



Med 



Monday 2/4 
Saturd,iy2/9 
Tuesdav2/12 
Thursday 2/14 

Women's Basketball 



Upcoming Events 



CONCORDIA COLLEGE 

At Loyola Universily 
At lUPUI 
GRACE COLLEGE 



iy2/4 

S:!lurday2/9 
Mondav2/ll 
Saturday 2/16 
Tuesday 2/19 



Friday 2/8 
SatunJay2/9 
Friday 2/ 15 
Saturday 2/16 

Men's Hockey 



Al Cleveland Slalc Universily 
Al University of Maryland 
A I West cm Michigan Universily 
LIPSCOMB UNIVERSFTV 
At lUPUl 



BALL STATE UNIVERSITY 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
QUINCY UNnfERSlTY 
LEWIS UNIVERSITY 



FINDLAY (6 Memorial Coliseum) 



7:30 p.rr 
lp.m. 



7p,m, 
7J0p,m 



7 p.m. 
7 p.m. 
7 p.m. 



Hoosiers' basketball rollin' in Big Ten play 



By Adam Spieth, Sports EdiH 



Indiai 

25. but dropped out of the rankings 

early losses in Ihe Great Alaska Shootout. 

Other road losses lo Miami. Southern 
Illinois and Kentucky did not exactly 
improve Iheir lot with the remainder of 
America's best of the besi, but may prove 
handy when tournament time rolls around. 

The Hoosiers arc seen as having the 
third loughcsl schedule of all Division I 
tearru. If they can Tmish Ihe Big Ten season 
with a good record, a high loumament seed 
may t&gt;c in their future. 

Teams who were ranked early on and 
predicted to be the Big Ten powerhouses 
have not lived up to their high expeclalions. 
Michigan Slate. Iowa and Tltinois have all 
suffered multiple conference losses that 
may jeopardize their chances ol making it 
into the Big Dance, unless they really pick 
up their game. 

Michigan Slate recently defeated the 
Fighline lUirtl on their home court and may 
be in the early stages of making a run 
toward the top ol the standings. 

Minnesota has been playing tough and 



IS currently lliiid in conleience standings. 
„ The Hoosiers recently suffered a loss al 

Minnesota whichpuls them behind the race 

of the conference lead. 

ad belongs to an unlikely and 
Ohio Stale Buckeye ttfam. The 

Buckeyes have only suffered one confer- 



underraled Ohio Stale Buckeye 



loss, but have a tough road schedule 
awaiting them, II might be jusl the answer 
for the Irailing Hoosiers. who have already 
played several conference road games. 

Be sure to catch the Hoosiers as they 
host important upcoming matches agaiiut 
loiva and Wisconsin, By ivinning Ihese Iwo 
key malch'ups, Ihe Hoosiers will be in the 
perfect place to possibly slip past OhioStale 
for the conference lead. . 

Indiana's success has been catapulted 
by the multi-talented, super sophomore, 
Jared Jeffries. The former Mr. Indiana has 
led the Hoosiers in scoring and is polential- 
ly an unstoppable threat in Ihe low post. He 
even shot the Hoosier's orUy three-pointer 

Purdue last week and he was recently 
named the Big Ten player of the week He 
leads Ihe Bic Ten in scoring (205), ranks 
second in reoounding (9.1J and leads the 

conference in blocked shots (2.6 J. 

Along wilh Jeffries, Ihe Hoosiers have 



seen strong play by (unior guard Tom 
Covcrdale. Another Mr. Indiana, he has lit 
up the Hoosier opponents recently, particu- 
larly from beyond the three-point arc. 

lU has also seen improving play from 
Jarrod Odie, who has earned a starting 
position over George Leach and Jeffrey 
Newton. Leach and Newton have provided 
needed sparks off the bench, particularly in 
the shot-blocking arena. 

Senior Dane Fife continues lo have 
shooting woes, despite a great game against 
Illinois, Through il all, he has managed lo 
remain a solid defei\sive stopper and a 
strong leam leader. 

Shooting guard Kyle Homsby is a 
deadly Ihrcal from downloivn. but hasn't 
been able to light il up like Coverdale and 
Fife have in recent weeks. If he can put up 
double-digits every gan\e, that would pro- 
vide Ihe needed component to enable the 
lU olfense to be a championship team. 

A.J. Moye and freshman Donald Perry 
have provided improving play oft Ihe 
bench at the guard spot. Moye also can play 
the small forward. 

If these players manage to find a con- 
sislenl role on this team, perhaps Coach 
Mike Davis can find better success in the 
NCAAToumamenI than in previous years. 



Four Reasons to Join 
the lU Credit Union: 



1 . Quality member service 

• Fast, friendly, personal service 

• Call or visit your on-campus branch— We'll be 
happy to help you' 

2. Outstanding Loan Rates 

• Vehicle, Signature, Home Improvements. 
Home Equity, Mortgages 

3. Easy access to your account 

• Visa« f L^SH Cash and Check card 

• Web Home Teller, Internet banking accessible 
from wvvw.iucu.org 

4. Full-service on-campus branch 

relief/Member Services, Loan/Administrative : 

KettlerHallfl198F Walb Student Union M125 

2101 E Coliseum Blvd. 2101 £ Coliseum Blvd. 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



(219)481-6963 



(219)481-6273 



lU Credit Union 

We Find More Ways to Help! 

HOURS^ Mcjn - Wed &amp; FN 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. • Thurs. 9 a,m, - 




DONAfEIT! 



)rdiy charity 

• Donate your uied car,vin, 
SUV, truck, orlitiit 

• Avoid the tiaiile ol seUing 

• Hay tw eiigiNe (or ax deduction 

• Wilde doein't hive to run 

t AMERICAN 
LUNG 
ASSOCIATION* 

Vchk l« Donjiion Pn^run 

CM Mq tap fkft ms i«ek-« 

1.800.577.LUNG 




Jiffy Lul)e 
Signature Service. 

Come mio our serves center near campus and give 
Jitly Lutje Signature Service a try We look torwa/d lo 
serving you m the near (ulure. 

Receive $4 Off with a valid 
IPFW ID everyday. 

6 Ft. Wayne Locations 



C^) Guest Services 1^ 

800-JIFLUBE 

_ Eisnra:&lt;amsm. • Code IPFW_ 



