Indiana University 



Purdue U n i vers n 



Fort Wayne 



Wednesday, April 12, 2006 




Spring Fling events 
and coverage exclus 
to www.ipfi 



Volume 36, Issue 27 



i File Sharing Dangers 



PAGEA2 

www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



i T.I. is King 

New album from T.I. is worthy 
of recent acclaim, chart 
topping status 
PAGE AE 



10 Pages, 1 Section, Free 



News Briefs 
Communicator 
wins 26 awards 

The annual Indiana CulleyiiitL' 
Press Association Convention was 
lielil List Saturday in Indianapolis. 
The convention hosted several 
informative sessions, a keynote 
speech by Mark Goodman of the 
Student Press Law Center and the 
annual awards ceremony. 

Current and former members 
of The Communicator won a 
total of 26 awards at the event, 
the largest total for the paper in 
1CPA competition. Highlighting 
the awards was a second place in 
the Division II Newspapers Best 



schools with enrollment of J.iliiO 
or more students. Evansville 
placed first in Best of Show with 
43 points to I he Communicator's 
42. The University of Indianapolis 



► AWARDS: Page A3 



IPSGA'06-'07 
officers named 



On the morning of April 7, the 
new officers of IPSGA were named 
after a week long elections process 
that saw iilti students participate 
in the voting. 

ShayStroik was named the next 
student body president defeating 
Nicholas Malm-Adams 178 votes 
to 156. Stroik will replace current 
president Umar Dixon. 

Stroik's running mate, Danny 



votes) defeated L\dia ilnlhin'u 



held by Stroik. 

Also receiving elections were 
Alicia (ripps for Student Body 
Vice President with J93 votes and 
Aaron Williamson with 302 votes 
for Comptroller. Both Cripps and 
Williamson ran unopposed. 



From rags to riches 



"From Homeless to 
Harvard" speaker 
shares inspiration- 
al journey 



: continuing your education, and 
the power of learning, as the IPFW Department of 
Continuing Studies celebrated its 30 Anniversary as 
pan of this special Omnibus Event. 

Murray was the event's speaker, introduced by 
the Department of Continuing Studies Director, Deb 
Conklin. Murray took the stage to the applause of 
almost 600 students, faculty and public guests of 
all ages. Pleased with the "sea of faces," Murray's 
calming voice reached out to the crowd to tell her 
story, as she called it, of "that homeless to Harvard 



Her parents were addled drug-addicts, spending 
every cent on cocaine. Her mother died of AIDs 
complications, and Murray found herself homeless 
by age 15 in New York City. 

Through the help of ,m faiglish teacher and sheer 
force of will, Murray was able to finish high school 
while living on the streets. She was able to win 
a scholarship from The New York Times and was 
able to attend the prestigious Columbia Universiry. 
After some time at Columbia, Murray transferred to 
Harvard, where she is currently attending school 
She was truly the "Homeless to Harvard" girl. 

Her story is chronicled in her book of the same 
name and was a Lifetime Original Movie in 2003, 
which was also called "From Homeless to Harvard." 

The IPFW Omnibus Lecture Series brings six such 
speakers a year to IPFW. This is the final production 
in the li year of the Omnibus Series sponsored by SPEAKERS: Murray concludes "the"' 65-'06 * 
► OMNIBUS: PageA2 0mnibus Lectures series - 




Early Earth Day 



PFW students and staff 
as well as members of the 
community 
Walb Student 
to participate 
Club's annual celebration of 

The Chemistry Club, the 



archeological dig where 
children could rake through 
sand in a baby swimming pool 
plus a duck pond and bean 
bag toss that gave participants 
a chance to win prizes, 

could enjoy the free hand and 
back massages provided by 
employees of Classic Image 



. provided by the Other local companies 



Indiana-Purdue Student 
Government Association. 

The affair, which was free 
to the public, ran from 10 a.m. 
to 2 p.m. and gave visitors 
an opportunity to learn about 
biology and environmental 

"We're just hoping to 
inform the public about 
science and have fun while 
doing it," said Laura Thieme, 
secretary of the Biology Club. 

With activities for all ages 
as well as music provided 
by local radio station 103.9 
and lunch offered during the 
sunny, albeit slightly chilly 
day the event did just that. 

In keeping with the theme 
of Earth Day, ft 



such as the Allen County Solid 
Waste Management District, 
which provided education 
on the dangers of mercury, 
also took part in the event 
by paying a $20 vendor fee to 
have an information booth on 
the first floor of Walb. 

Gretchen Littlefield 

represented Indiana 

Public Animal Watch 
Group, an organization 
that displayed tables with 



► EARTH DAY: Page A3 



Big names planned 
for oil crisis event 



■ Oil shockwaue program by 
U.S. government coming 
to IPFW features students, 
professors and high-ranking 
officials 



The United States stands on the precise of 
disaster. On January 19, terrorists target oil 
tankers and oil storage tanks in a coordinated 



violence 

of foreign national with oil expertise, ending 

the country's ability i 



Thursday, April 20, to present oil Shockwave, 
an oil crisis executive simulation. Oil 
Shockwave features professors and students 
acting out positions on a fake presidential 
cabinet to respond to crisis similar to the 
ones listed above. 

lames Toole. Andy Downs, Caroline 
Stomph and Richard Johnson will be 
joined by five students to respond and plan 
reactions to oil disasters that would cripple 
the American Economy. The regional 
director of Oil Shockwave, Sara Gudorf, 
selected them with recommendations 
from political science department head Dr. 
James Lutz. The group "gladly joined" when 
approached by Gudorf. They will be Joined 
by ex-assistance Secretary of Defense under 
Clinton and Carter Frank Kramer. Kramer Is 
also the events keynote speaker. 

Opening the high-profile i 



producer of oil's productioi 

The result is always the same, . .one action 
beyond the control of the United States 
results in gasoline prices reaching 55 a gallon, 
results in the economy of both the U.S, and 
the world being crippled. The problem is 
always the same.., we are addicted to oil. 

The National Commission on Energy 
Policy and the Securing America's Future 
Energy (SAFE) group are coming to IPFW on 



i City Initi 
near Omnibus status and co-sponsored by 
the Office of the Chancellor, will include 
an Indycar ethanol simulator, various 
hybrid-cars from local dealerships and the 
completely improved Oil Crisis Simulator, 
the centerpiece of the event. 

Gudorf picked IPFW to host the event, She 
was able to bring the event to IPFW as one of 
four national stops that include Kalamazoo, 
Portland and Kansas, She explained that 
► OIL CRISIS: Page A3 




Easter Activities 



•"Eggstravaganza" egg hunt at 
the Botonical Gardens (weather 
permitting) held between 10:30 a.m. 
and 2:30 p.m. 

•Easter Bunny available for 
pictures at Jefferson Pointe Monday 
through Saturday 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. 



e upon a time in a land fat. far away, 
brighdy colored chicken eggs were used for a 
spring celebration. In a present reality, those 
brightly colored eggs are used as a Christian 
symbol of Easter. A universal symbol of life 
and rebirth (spring) is one of the oldest recognizable symbols of 
fertility. Around the world, decorated eggs began showing up 
and thus multiple births of the Easter Egg story have risen. 
One popular theory states that Mary Magdeline went to 
Caesar to tell the story of Jesus' resurrection. It's reported that 
Caesar was eating his breakfast and commented that Jesus 
couldn't have risen from the dead just like the egg he was 
holding wouldn't turn red. Then the egg turned a crimson 
colon thus to honor that occasion, crimson colored eggs are 
exchanged in Greece. Another theory puts compromise on the 
table between Pagans and the Christians who were trying to 
convert them, Fortunately for both parties, Easter fell around 
the same time as the Pagan annual festival of dyeing eggs for 



Son, the symbolic poultry would-be baby will continue their 
prevalence. In modern traditions, taster eggs are colored with a 
vinegar-based solution thai stains 'lie egg. Wax pencils can be 
used to make clear lines across the surface of the egg, which will 
repeal the vinegar and make attractive designs. Stickers and 
markers can also be used to delicately decorate a dyed egg. 

To dye your own egg this Easter, first you should hard-boll 
your eggs and then cool them overnight. Take one tsp white vin- 
egar and add it to boiling water with 30 to 40 drops of food color- 
ing. Wait for the solution to cool and then soak your eggs in it. 
Try spicing things up with glitter, ribbons or even natural dyes. 

If you want to try die natural dye route, it is very different and 
expensive. You have to cover your eggs in boiling water with one 
tsp vinegar. After that, add crushed cranberries or raspberries 
for red, yellow-delicious apple peals for yellow or coffee for a rich 
golden-brown color. 



ipsm 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



Newsroom: (260) 481-6584 
Fax: (260) 481-6045 
Advertising Dept: (260) 481 -6583 
E-mail: contact@lptwcommunlcator.org 



^^^J 






The Communicator 



m 



mm 



French poetry slam tres bien 



Brianna Belford 

Editor-in-Chief 

bboHordeipfwcommunlcator.org 

Jamie Miller 

Managing Editor 

jmiUorQiptwcom mo nlcot o r. org 

Una Mabfattt 

Advertising Manager 

Imabbltiejpfwcomnxintcator.ort) 

Amy Dunnuck 

Copy Editor 



eha rd I n g O Ipfwco mm u n lea t o r. 

Nick West 

Sports Editor 

n westOipfwco mmunlcatof.org 



Andres Ponte 

Design Editor 

Andrew C. Hoover 

News Editor 
atocv0rt}¥*wcorf«XJric3tor.org 

Publisher 
Doris Reynolds 

(260)481-6585 



IPSNInc. 

Walb Union Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fori Wayne. IN 46805 



francophone's poetry, and some 
even sang songs and brought 
props to go along with their 



the final post -graduate readers. 



mon amour. Shannon 

Buonocore won second with 
her performance of Viens. 
Une flute invisible and Chrisy 



s recivied a themed 



oiiO.isihey packed Spreng 



language. 

From the first year collegi 
French class category, Uric Lauren smith 



year college French classs 
category with excerts from Les 
Petit Prince followed by Maria 
Derevyashkina in second 



third and fourth ] 



French class, Julie Donnell 
topped the list with Oui-dire, 
a pun-poem that humourusly 
muses on similar sounding 
French verbs. Seth Drayer won 
second place with a poem about 
a man accidentally burning his 
wife to death in a sealed box on 
an alter, and Sarah Ridenour 
rounded out the Top three in 
the third and fourth year college 
French class category. 

The post-graduate 

"Francophone" winner was 
DiiiiiT Francois Jr. 



Notre Dame students reported 
for illegal file sharing on campus 



the I lean's Office. 

The Omnibus Lecture Series 
was made possible this year 
with support from the English, 



By Marcela Berrios 

(Notre Dame) 



1 hat illegally downloaded Kelly Clarkson 
song might be a secret pleasure, but more 
people than you think might knowaboutthe 
"Since U Been Gone" file on your computer. 
Both musicians and the Recording Industry 
Association of America have struggled for 
years trying to keep songs and albums from 
being transferred from one user to another 
in file sharing programs such as KaZaa, 
LimeWire and Ares, among others. 

At Notre Dame University, computer 
usage violations were the fourth most 
frequent incident reported to the Office 
of Residence Life and Housing during the 
2004-05 academic year, accounting for 11 
percent of disciplinary violations handled 
by the Office. 

DuLac's Responsible Use of Information 
Technologies policy stipulates that any 
"unauthorized copying or transmission of 
copyright-protected material" might result 

the Notre Dame networks. 

But the people who pose the greatest 
threat to Ares users are the musicians, 
organizations and companies who fail to 
make a profit every time an album or movie 
is downloaded free of charge. 



Companies such as FIBO, Columbia 
Pictures and Universal Music Group 
have previously monitored Notre Dame 
students downloading movies, television 
shows, music files and other software, and 
have directly contacted the University, said 
Kathy Brannock, Assistant Director of the 
Office of Residence Life and Housing. 

Brannock said Notre Dame does not 
actively monitor which students download 
"The Sopranos" or Bon )ovi hits to their 



detect these activiiic 

with the University's legal department 

and expect it to address the issue with the 

students. 

Junior Mike Bupac/ said he wascontacted 
by the Office of Residence Life and Housing 
after downloading a few songs, 

"I got an e-mail from ResLife telling 
me to cease and desist and to call them 
up to schedule a meeting," he said. "I had 
downloaded maybe three dozen songs 
using LimeWire, and I wasn't even aware 
that I was sharing them with other users." 

For first time offenders such as liogacz, downloaded 
Brannock says the University will only issue While stu&lt; 

verbal warnings and expect the student risks of dowi 
to delete the files in question from his serious offen 
computer. "MyRAat 

However, Brannock said she could not student of th 
guarantee the company that detected the 
illegal file sharing would not press charges. 



"We have been receiving more and more 
violation notices horn companies, as they 
are becoming increasingly vigilant of their 
copyright-protected material," Brannock 

This semester alone, the Office of 
Residence Life and Housing has met with 
more than 33 students who were specifically 
reported by external organizations that 
witnessed them engaging in illegal file 
sharing, thus making this offense one of the 
most common ones among students. 

"Every time you download a song 
for free, you're running the risk of being 
watched by these companies and these 
musicians," Brannock said. "They really are 
looking out for violators of copyright laws, 
and if you happen to download that one 
the wrong time, you might just get 



NewsChannel 15. 



Canterbury Green 

7&lt;£e 0&lt;dtf 70&lt;Kf to. Jlive! 

• Next door to IPFW 

• Less Restrictive Lifestyle 

• Choose your Own Roommates 

• Wi-fi Accessibility 

• Daily Social Activities 

• Rent Starting at $310 per Student* 

• Washer/Dryer in every Apartment Home 

• Pet Friendly 

• Pools, Tennis Courts, &amp; 18 Hole Golf Course 



Open House 

April 22nd 

9am-5pm 



•Certain Restrictions Apply 



Canterbury Green 

2613 Abbey Drive 
Fort Wayne, IN 46835 

1-888-251-6220 

Monday-Friday 9am-7pm, Saturday 9am 5pm, &amp; Sunday Noon 5pm 

. www.aimco.com/canterburygreen y£ 

^ Email us at: canterburygreen@aimco.com Ljjj 




Campus 


IPFW 

„ ▼ 


uaienda 


r 

for April 13-19, 2006 


13 Writing Center: "Stump the Writing 


Implantation in Children," Dr. Scott 


Consultants!" KT G98. 1:30 p.m. For 


Holland, speaker; KT 146, noon-l:l5 


information, call 15740. 


p.m. For information, call 16839. 


IPFW Child Care Center Online 


Eating Disorder Support Group: 


Silent Auction: Visit www.ipfw.edu/ 


WU 234, 6:30-8:30 p.m. For 


childcan begins at 8 a.m. and 


information, call I6647 ore-mail 


continues until noon on April 21. For 


lillapjuu ipfw.edu. 


information, call 10] 11. 






Omicron-Psi Honor Society Induction 


Athletic Event: Women's Tennis vs. 


Ceremony: WU Ballroom, 6:30 p.m.; 


Wright State, IPFW Tennis Courts. 


5 ."in check-in. I or information, cull 


4 p.m. For information, cull 16643. 


16029. 


Concert: Saxophone Quartet and 


Concert: Percussion Ensemble Spring 


Choir, NF Recital Hall. 7:30 p.m. 


Concert, NF Recital Hall, 7:30 p.m. 


For information, call 16714. 


For information, call I67I4. 


14 Athletic Event: Men's Volleyball vs. 18 


Spring Fiing Event: "Revenge or the 


Penn State. GC. 7 p.m. For information, 


Nerds.'' grassy knoll, noon-l p.m. 


call 16643. 


For information, call 16924. 


Biology Senior Seminar: Hirut 


Spanish Table: jVen a conversar y 


Manmcklot. Leslie Trabel, and 


comer con nosotros! WU Cafeteria, 


Zachary Smith, presenters; SB 185. 


nonn; bring a sack lunch. For 


noon. For information, call 16305. 


information. cull I6689 ore-mail 




conl'ortm'u ipfw.edu. 


Students viilh Families: I'i/ai Dinner 




featuring "Animal Grams" petting zoo; 


Athletic Event:" Baseball vs. Bowling 


WU Ballroom, 6-8 p.m. For 


Green, IPFW Baseball Field, 2 p.m. j 


information, call 14140. 


For information, call I6643. 


Classes suspended at 4:30 p.m. 


Movie: Crash. CM I59.6p.m., 




moderated by Ken Christmon, 


15 Athletic Events: Men's Volleyball vs. 


associate vice chancellor; also April 


Rutgers/Newark. GC. 7 p.m.; Baseball 


19 at 1 1:30 a.m., moderated by Ruby 


vs. Chicago State. IPFW Baseball 


Cain, professor and director of the 


Field, 1 p.m. For information, call 


Fort Wayne African- American Cancer 


16643. 


Alliance; and April 20 at 7 p.m., 




moderated by Lamar Dixon, president 


16 Athletic Events: Men's Tennis vs. 


of the IPSGA. For information, call 


Buffalo, IPFW Tennis Courts. 1 p.m.; 


16608. 


Baseball vs. Chicago State, IPFW 




Baseball Field, noon. For information, 19 


Red Cross Blood Drive: WU 


call 16643. 


Ballroom. 10 a.m.-3 p.m. For | 




information, call 16283. 








IPFW Connect Employer Luncheon: 


Spring Fling Week: continues 


WU Ballroom, 11 u.m.-l :30 p.m. 


through April 22. Fur inlormaiinn, call 


For information, call 16595. 


16283. 






IPFW Dinner Scries: "April in Paris," 


Philosophy Club: KT 246, noon- 


LaSalle Bed and Breakfast, 6:30 p.m. 


1 p.m. For information, call 16366. 


For tickets, contact 260-241-8431 or 




e-mail jane ll_salisbury&lt;S)hotmail. com. 


ETCS Colloquium Series: "fMRI 




Genes and Outcome from Cochlear 




This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



in the category with I 
Communicator has p 
advertising portion three ti 
1996. 

Included in the other 24 awards were two 
third-place awards goin^ to loimi.T Advertising 
Manager Aiden Hordner (Best House Ad), former 
Editor-in-Chief Anthony Maurer and current 
Editor-in-Chief Brianna Belford (Best Front 

Second place awards for The Communicator 
went to current stall mrmhers I ■ugene Harding 
[Sports Photo), Nick West (Sports News Story), 



i Andrew Welfle (Entertainment 
Feature Story and lleview) and Hordner (Display 
Ad. Black and While Ad and Full Color Ad). 

Ten first place awards went to the paper. 

Former staff members Kelly Ivnch (Design of 
a Black and White Ad). David C. Hunter (News 
Feature Storyl, Wei lie (I ntenainment Feature 
Story or He view), llnrdnet I Ad I ayoi it) and Maurer 
(Editorial Cartoon] all look first place awards. 

Also earning first plate awards were West, the 
current Sports Editor lor Sports Column for "West 



i'oinrVulpogame was foul" from the Spring JiHF, 
semester and Investigative Story for his series on 
homeland security from last fall. 

"By far the most in-depth entries in the 
category." the judge said til West's series. "For 
investigative stories, you've got to go deep, wliith 
West does." 

Vance, the Arts &amp; Intertainmeni Editor, won 
for Informational Graphic and Inside Page/ 
Section Front Design from Issue t Sports in ihe 
fall. 

"Graphic element on left side of page serves as 
a good anchor. " the judge said of Vance's winning 
Section Front. "(That) and use of photos makes 
for an inviting page." 

The Staff won first place awards for Staff 
Editorial "Legalization of cannabis beneficial to 
society" from the April 20, 2005 issue and Besi 
Single Issue tissue 1 from the lall of 2005). 

"Generally strong, with lots ol local copy. Best 
designed papei among those entered." the judge 
said of Issue 4. 



IUPUI, and I 
discussion panels during the 
morning sessions. 



the event will not be returning 
to IPFW next year, making this 
special event a rare opportunity 



"very doable and realistic." The school full-time. ..people can 

project is open to anyone who get involved!" 

wants to join and doesn't take a Studenlscanstillgetinvolved, 



Onlir 



the problems 
and dramatic situations that 
are likely to arise from them 
but also presents alternatives 
and solutions. Gudorf explains 
that the solutions n fie red are mother who v 



simple and t 






solutions in your daily life to power-shift org i 
reduce oil consumption and 492-6945 and spt 
letter writing campaigns are all to Sara Gudorf. 
ways people can get involved. 
Gudorf adds, "I am a single 



I mlelickl offered mint malum anon I alternatives 

"There are many companies that don't test or 
animals but have really good products." she said. 



i Johnson, who at just 14-months-old 
. brought by her parents and former IPFW 
Jents, Ann and Troy Johnson, spent several 



minutes examining the long black creature before 
telling it "bye-bye" and moving on. 

And, in the midst of all (his activity was the 
opportunity to relax and enjoy a free lunch of 
Nelson's chicken, chips and drinks. 

The food and the entire event proved io be 
popular with Kevin Doehrman, of Auburn, who 
came with his wife, an IPFW student, and their 
children. 

"The kids love this kind ol tiling." he said. "And, 
e lo\e the chicken." 




Enjoy writing? 

Interested in a career 
in journalism? 

Enjoy taking and 
editing photographs? 

Maybe you just want to 
have a voice in your 
campus newspaper... 



NOW IS YOUR CHANCE. 

Every position on the editorial board 

of The Communicator is available at 

the end of the term. 

The board of directors of Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers is 
currently taking applications for the positions of: 

EDITOR IN CHIEF 

and 

ADVERTISING MANAGER 



- 



If you are interested in the possibility of defining the voice of 

IPFW's only student publication, 

send a letter of interest and your resume to: 

THE COMMUNICATOR 
ATTN: Jennifer Bosk 

WALB UNION STE. 125 
2101 E.COLISEUM BLVD. 
FORT WAYNE, IN 46805 

Interviews will be conducted Wednesday, April 19, at 2 P.M. 



APPLICATIONS DUE BY APRIL 17 



Happy Easter from 



Duane Romines 
Police and Safety 



Cecilia Weakley 
Mathematical Sciences 



Mary Riggle 
Admissions 



William Weakley 
Mathematical Sciences 



Judy Maus 
Accountion Services 



Janet Papiernik 
Accounting and Finance 



Laura Reynolds 
Education 



George Bullit 
Economics 



Thomas Kaough 
English/Linguistics 

Ebene Bumey 
English/Linguistics 



Pat Garvey 
Education 



Donna Conrad 
English and Linguistic 



Barbara Romines 
School of Visual 
and Performing Arts 



John Knight 
Consumer and 
Family Sciences 



Dave Reynolds 
Comptroller Staff 



Solomon Isiorho 
Geosciences 



Sandra Crabill 
Admissions 



Jayla Heller 
Economics 



Jennifer Bosk 
Alumni Relations 



Medical Education 

Karen Martin 
Biology 



Sheila Marsh 
Athletics 



Bev Saal frank 
Athletics 



JeffElev 



i Keele 



Linda Sloat 
Counselor Educatii 

Orville Detraz 

Electrical and ( - : - ( - ( . 

Computer Engineering 

Technology 

Darlene Bender 

Lary Steinbacher Biology 

Police and Safety 

John Hrehov Dawn Miller 

Fine Arts English 

Jim Beard 

Education 

Art Friedel 

Chemistry 



Without a 
resurrection it 
all pretty 




Chocolate bunnies, jelly beans, egg hunts, brunch, that reluctant 

trip to church.. .is that what Easter is really all about? Dont miss out 

on the real story behid Easter. Jesus died for oour sins and rose from 

the dead. Why? So we could be completely forgiven and know God on 

a personal level. He offers us a new life. One with substance. 

Want to know more? Investigate the true meaning of Easter for 

yourself. Read the section called, "John" in the bible and see the 

feature article called BEYOND BLIND FAITH at Every Student .com. 



Haneline 
CELT 



Mary Anne Stailey 
Jodi Koesters j-pg 

Campus Ministry 

Stephi 
John Parkison 
Grounds 

Valerie Richardson 
Community Research Instuite 

Nick Johnson 
Global Christian Fellowship 



Deb Haley 
Library 



Terry Foss 
Communications 



Dianne Bezdon Mike Gibson 

Comptroller Staff Catholic Campus Ministry 



Ed Messal 

Jay Thayer Mechanical and Indusrtial 
Development Engineering Dianna Zook Deb Hein April Parks 

Technology, Emeritus Mathematical Sciences Continuing Studies IPFW/ParkviewCI 



Don Linn Admissions 

Chemistry Car . Keller 

Accountion and Finance 
Deb Kelley Cheryl Erickson 

Library IPFW/Parkview Clinic 

Sandy Schaufelberger 
Carol Isaacs Continuing Studies 
Admissions Amanda Callen 

InterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
Ronald Burkart 
Sharon Egly p oIice and Safety 

Ron Clark 
Athletics 

Jeffrey Nowak Phyllis Agness 
Education Education 

. , . r- , Marge Kimble 

Mark Franke „, 

Chemistry 



Audiology and 
Speech Sciences 



Bob Kostrubanic 



Rhonda Meriwether 
Academic Counseling 
and Career Services 



Jada Sachschewsky 
IPFW/Parkview Clin 



Lisa Elev 
Printing Services 



Assistant Comptrolle 

Ben Gates 
Campus Ministry 
and History 



Judy Tillapaugh 
IPFW Wellness 



Karen Parkison 

Library 

Jeff Schmidt 



Jesus said, "I am the Resurrection and the Life." --John 11:25 



The Communicator 



awMiBM,5na&gt;ri)E*or 



Podium 



W«hetday;A{riU2006 



Opinions • Editorials 



Ireland drivers don't need a license to drive 



Pasquali's Ponderings 

ByAngie Pasquali 
apasquali@iptwcommunkalor.org 



■ first story that caught my eye years. 



lust keep telling yourself, onl 

That seems to be the only li 
through my days right now. 

Once the spring semesler hits 01 
mark, my brain seems in stall out, .mil ii hikes 
whole lot more energy and effort 



passed a driving te 
but, naturally, are si 
out on the roadways. 



mi;)] mv i lasses than il did during t 



getting me surprising considering that 
every other person out on the 
the halfway roads is an idiot, but there is an 
reme loophole in the driver- 
ting system keeping alt of 
! fall these people legal. 



i I. ike [he 



According to the Transport 

I know all of us are itching for the summer to Department, drivers receive 

get here, and il just cannot arrive sunn enough, provisional licenses while 

Friends from other schools will be returning waiting up t 

Inline while we ;ill relax in the sun, enjoying a few test. 

months off from the daily, monotonous grind. Other dr 
A majority of us will be working, but I a 

months hav 

When I w 

letting my h 



fail (lie test. 



nimi.illy 






caught my eye was 
that 400,000 Irish 
motorists have nev- 



er passed a driving 
test, but, naturally, 
are still out on the 



; supposed to expire after two 
surfing the Internet litis weekend, years. 

n rest from studying, i came across According to government statistics, some 

Naming vet mind -blowing stories individuals have heen driving unqualified lor III 



the licensing system, there still 

Last week, a 15-year-old boy 
was killed when the school bus 
containing him and 34 other 
children tipped over on a bumpy 
road. The privately owned school 
bus contained an unlicensed 

If this case does not push for 
stronger enforcement of driving 
privileges, then I do not know 
what will. 

When the licensing system is 
■j poor that school bus drivers do not even have 
real license, someone needs to take action and 
;st these people. 

Plenty of people in the United States should 
ot be out on the roadways, but that is because 



licensing systei 

The factthat Ireland is strugglingsosignificantly 
with their organization and capability to control 
who is out on their roadways should show us 
how to monitor our own roads. 

Ireland's road death rate runs 50 percent 
higher than the Western European average, and 
shows no signs of declining. 









we all do too many things while driving that 
should get our licenses taken away. 

Stop doing so many things at once and pay 
attention to what you are doing. 

Enjoy your independence this summer, but be 
iarelul ivuh those around you. 

The more you do while you are driving, the 
better you make Ireland's government look, and 
they technically don't even need licenses to drive 



The Japanese have a popular 
movie; 'hero' named Rapeman 



Screaming from the Left 

By Andrew C. Hoover 
ahoover@ipfwcommunicator.org 



just going to let that headline sink beast. 

ebit. lust let it stew in your head. Japanese porn also includes i 

t going to talk about a little blood, aliens, children, popular c; 



thcorylhaveai 
something very odd. ..the ; 
lapanese sexual identity. 
I bet you find that racist. 






1 War II, they 



psychiatric backlash that 
includes, among other things, 
a developed case of sexual 
deviancy. 

This theory arised my 
freshman year at Purdue 



&gt; uniquely Japanese 



domination and 



Japanese pom also mainstream. On the 
sides of busses. 

includes incest, A s-year-oid 

cartoon character 
ui» n *i ,i:„_, ,u:i ' s on condom 

blood, aliens, chil- packa g e s. 

. So, mainstream 

dren, popular Car- in fact they have a 



It was supposed t 

illustrated thai men, i 
sex but for rape. 



e reported that 
read rape -manga, 
le subway and on 



characters, i i 



dominations and 
"normal" rape. 



a "hero" who goes 
around, and I quote 
from their webpage 
here, "rapes women 

that deserve it after they won't put out to 

their boyfriends." 






vou about il, look it up (and 
prepared to be horrified) if 
you care that much, .just take my v 
it is gross. 

So, my frosh roommate shows 
this. ..and my eves bled I was immediately of 
struck with a profound sense of "why!?" en 
and, since back then I was psychiatry boy or girl, 
major, I started thinking about it. Consider the scene from "Lost in 

A quick examination of lapanese Translation" when Bill Murray is given a 
pornography shows many disturbing high-class hooker as a gift. The hooker 
images, including what is commonly expects to simulate, not sex, but rape, She 

tentacle rape" in which a young falls around, tears her clothes, begs and 



expectation and deviancy tl 



iofa 



a word for comic, 

Panty vending 
street corners so people can buy soiled 

In fact, the Japanese Diet (their 
legislature) had to pass a law setting 
the age limit on these panty vending 
machines because too many under-age 
girls were making good money selling 

People. I am not making this up. 
Deviancy is the norm. 

The sexual culture of lapan, as reported 
by major news outlets both domestic 
and foreign, as shown by what is mass 
produced and sold and is "successful" 
shows a sexual identity that is ruinous 
and terrible. 

The World-Health Organization 
reported that the sex-slave trade is highly 
active in lapan, with Japan estimated to 
have the third largest sex-slave trade in 
the World. 

The Japanese sexual identity threatens 
a rich, colorful history and tradition that 
includes some of the greatest art and 
poetry of humanity. 

The deviant sexual identity of the 
lapanese serves to do irreparable 
psychiatric damage to its youth. And 
worse yet, it is spreading West. Even 
, young Yu-gi-oh! fans are becoming 



raped by ; 



ileliladed 



Don't ever give up, especially on yourself 



Staff Column 



"Don't stop believing..." So And what do they walk 

goes the classic hit by Journey, away to? Some place better? 
my Maybe. But, more than likely, 
e place easier. Some plai 



sitting here 

computer writing this column, 

the words are echoing through 



about fate. 
It is telling u 



esongis 



^rything is given, 
some place where effort isn't a 
requirement. 

Ifeelthatearningsomething 
valuable than anything 



But, taken out of &lt; 
just the line "don' 

believing" means eve 



give up I've ever been 
is that takes work, it takes time and it 
me out takes faith. 

I personally feel like I have 
had my share of trying i 



would have to 
be pretty bad. I just wasn't 
brought up that way - quilting 
was always the very last 
option. What if colonists had 
lost hope and given up during 
the American Revolution? 
What if Columbus gave up 
quit trying ti 






, And l) 






go cast? 
What iry 

Nothing \ 









people just 
give up 



today, do real worl 

Keep on believing 
and keep on hoping, 
Faith alone can get 
you through. 



admit defeat? Not likely; the 



hope and faith, believing in 
something, Wins. 

Recently, I heard someone 
say "finish what you start," 
which is what sent me on the 
topic of believing. Because if 
you don't believe then how can 
you finish? 

t finishing happens 

about the health of 



very worthy fear. 

The people who give up at 
their jobs, on their children, 
in their life - those are the 
people the United States needs 
to start worrying about. 

When the majority of the 
American population stops 
believing, there will be more 
problems than if the entire 
United States' population was 

Do yourself a favor and 
don't give up. Don't give up 
on yourself, on your goals, on 

If your goals change, then 
fine. Change your life; that's 
not giving up, that's not losing 

That is just life and people 
change and their goals must 
change to follow, 

On the other hand, giving 
up, losing hope, to stop 
believing - al) lead to regret. 



A more positive 
note this week 



Staff Column 

By Chris Wetzel 
cwetzel@ipfwcommunkator.org 



hit a 



■, mainly among the 



friends and relatives of Mr 
Foster (I have been informed 

somehow managed to come 
away from reading that column 
with the impression that I had 
called Mr. Foster a Klansman, 
among other things. 

They have notbeen shy about 
voicing these concerns, which 
would be more understandable 
if they weren't so confusing. 

I should make allowances, 
though. As humans we tend 
to amplify those things we 
perceive as slights, and it's 
possible that my writing left the 
point of the piece unclear. 

So, in the interest of peace 
in our time, I'll spell it out: Mr. 
s being mentioned in last 
s completely 



"Alpha Squad 7: Lady Nocturne: 
a Tek Jansen Adventure" is an 
insult to a good writer. 

Dick tackled a lot of 
ambitious subjects in his time, 
ranging from fascism to God. 

His best work, though, was'A 
Scanner Darkly," a novel about 
drug addiction, prohibition, 
surveillance ... a lot of things, 

The book tackles the 
subject of drug addiction with 

neither a hippie's unreasoning 






It had nothing to do with him 
at all, despite his having been 
mentioned so prominently in 
the headline (which I didn't 

The name I picked could 
have just as easily been Brown 
or Fries, but as it happens there 
are a lot of Foster signs on my 
drive home. 

The column was not an 
attack on any particular 
candidate, but rather an attack 
on the practice of saturating 
every street corner in the 
county with these worthless 
campaign signs. 

As far as [ can tell, everybody 
who is running for anything 
is doing this. I stand by that 
attack; at best, these signs 
are a form of littering, and at 
worst they erode the electoral 
process. 

If anybody can somehow 

enough to interpret any of 
the above as a personal attack 
against anybody, I give up; 
that's officially your problem. 

Anyway, although next 
week we'll be back to the 
regularly-scheduled column on 
Something That Annoyed Me 
This Week, it's really about time 
for something nicer. 

Not kittens-dancing-in- 
cotlon-candy nice, perhaps, 
but a break is needed from 
Quixotically heaping scom on 
something that won't change. 

So.forsomethingcompletely 



i I it Heading List But 
Some of you arc probably 



which have later been adapted 
to film with mixed results 
("Blade Runner" and "Minority 



He is often categorized as 
a science fiction writer, which 

rightly regarded as the genre of 



rather from the perspective 
of somebody who has been 

there and been burned by both 

This is a book in which most 
readers see some aspect of 
themselves, and it's not always 
pleasant. 

"A Scanner Darkly," in 

compares favorably with 
the kind of simpering social 
conscience fare canonized by 
the Nobel Laureates and the 
MLA. 

Dick is in good company, 
though; you won't see "The 
Crying of Lot 49" on your 
reading list either, and Thomas 
Pynchon is probably the 
greatest living writer of English 

An entire course could 
easily be taught on "Gravity's 



There is much more that is 
worth reading in "The Wind- 
Up Bird Chronicle" than, say, 
"The Awakening" or "Their 
Eyes Were Watching God," both 
of which I've had to read for 

So why are good writers like 
Dick, Vonnegut, Pynchon and 
Murakami basically ignored in 
academia, in favor of mediocre 
ones like Zora Neale Hurston? 
Maybe because all of them have 
had that dread label "sci fi" 
attached by character assassin s, 
the label which causes nobody 
in academia to ever take you 
seriously again. 

This despite the fact that 
Pynchon in particular is no 
more a science fiction writer 
than I am Neptune, God of the 

Maybe it's time that we took 
more of a look outside of the 



i iirrenily in the "i 
just convinced ourselves of* 
foolish notions such as this 
idea that Walt Whitman wasn't 
a terrible poet and that "Song 
of Myself" is worth reading. 

That should be every bit as 
much -i wakeup call as waking 
up after a wild night out in bed 






I^^J 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free 
excercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the 
people peacably to assemble, and to petition the government for redress of grievances. 

Illegal immigration wrong 

Staff Editorial 




Cartoon by Andres Ponte / graphics@ipfwcommunicator.org 



which are from Mexico. I he issue is heated, personal ,uut has been pro tested 
heavily liy people who haw Im.ken (he law to come here and protest our laws. 
With one exception, the IPFW Communicator editorial stall feels that this is 
a mockery of the laws of our nation. In an era when celebrities commit gross 
violations of drug laws and net a slap on the wrist, in an era when the president 



violation of said law, 

It seems that the law restrains only black and white middle and poor 
America. 

The Communicator st att does nut hate immigrai us, nor have any xenophobic 
feelings in regards to immigrants, and understands that immigrants built 
America. However, we do ieel that rewarding Ihose lli.it hroke the law is stupid. 
We do feel that the current debate on immigration is racist. We do feel that 
the current debate only seems to discuss Mexicans, and avoids the question 
of European immigrants, ( uhau immigrants, Korean immigrants, Chinese 
immigrants, Vietnamese immigrants, Uussian immigrants, Arabic immigrants 
and South American immigrants. Ii seems the media onlv wants to publish 
pictures of Latinos waving Hags. They only talk about seeming the border with 
Mexico. 

There is nothing wrong with immigrants. 1 here is something fundamentally 
wrongwith rewarding those i hat break the law, espr&lt; Lilly H n hurts deeply those 
who follow the law. There is something inndanienially wrung with rewarding 
those who smuggle, run. kill, light and endanger themselves and others to 
get here while others wait in line and do the paperwork. There is something 
fundamentally wrong with ignoring all oiIk.t immigrants in lavor of one group, 
no matter how large. 

There is something fundamentally wrong with ibis debate and HR 4437. 



Letters to the Editor 

Response to post abortion syndrome letter 



On Feb. 8, The Communicator published a letter from 
us on the topic of the scientific research concerning 
the psychological impact of abortion. We wrote in 
response to the signs on campus promoting the idea 
that there exists a "post-abortion" syndrome, to which 
we objected. A response to our letter was published in 
The Communicator on March 2'\ In ll'RV student, Emily 
Olson. We appreciate the opportunity to respond to the 
points made in Ms. Olson's thoughtful and well-written 

First, Ms. Olson criticizes us for not citing research 
in support of the positions we made, and simply 

asserting that research demonstrated these findings. 



That ts certainly a valid criticism None of us would 
write professionally without citing sources, nor would 
we accept assertions in students term papers without 
requiring students to cite research in support of them. In 
fairness,. however, ii is nm nurmalk the case that letters 
to the editor or up-ed pieces include citations. 

Since Ms. Olson took us to task for omitting citations 
in support of our points, we will now provide them. We 
continue to assert that, overall, women are generally more 
when they confront an unwanted pregnancy 



it Lalos, 2004; Russo &amp; Zicrk, 1992; 
Stodand, 2003). 

We did not, nor would we, state that women have 
no psychological problems after abortion; of course 
make long-term difficulty related 



1994; Cozzarelli, Sumer. &amp; Major, 1998); (b) being 
environment that induces guilt or shame (Broen, Mourn, 
Bodtker, &amp; Ekeberg, 2004; Cozzarelli, Major, Karrasch, 
8r Fuegen, 2000; Major &amp; Gramzow, 1999), such as 
being exposed to anti-abortion pieketers (Cozzarelli &amp; 
Major, 1994); and (c] having prior depression, or low self 
esteem, or sense of efficacy iC.o?/arelli, 1993; Major et 
al., 2000; Major, Richards, Cooper, Cozzarelli, &amp; Zubek, 
1998; Russo &amp; Dabul, 1997), 

It is true that some studies, including those cited by 
Ms. Olson, support the conclusion that women who 
choose elective abortion to terminate a pregnancy have 
more psychological difficulties than some comparison 
group (e.g. women who have miscarriages, women 
who carry a pregnancy to term, women who have never 
had abortions, women who were never pregnant, etc.]. 
There are many differences between women who have 
abortions and those who do not, and these differences 
create methodological difficulties in doing research on 
such a complex and sensitive topic I or example, it has 
been shown that women who seek abortion are more 
likely to have been victims of violence - rape, physical 
and sexual abuse, and domestic violence (Russo &amp; 
Denious, 2001]. Such experiences themselves predict 
mental health problems, ant! it is necessary to control 
them statistically before examining the independent 
impact of abortion on mental health outcomes such 
as depression (we call these confounding factors). 
Controlling these factors statistically typically eliminates 
any effect of abortion on mental health. We could use 
other examples, but the point is that it is difficult but 
necessary to separate the experience of abortion itself 
from many other (actors that influence mental health 
and adjustment to come to meaningful conclusions 
about abortion itself. 

For example, in the New Zealand study Ms. Olson 
cited (Fergusson, Horwood, &amp; Ridder. 200G), although 



controlled for many preexisting factors, 
they were not able to adjust for the fact of simply 
experiencing an unwanted pregnancy, nor were they 
able to examine partner support lor the abortion, nor 
exposure to partner violence, lhe authors themselves 
stated that their finiliiijis i ould l»- o -l at ed to confounding 
factors that were not controlled. The other study she 
cued (we believe it was Reardon &amp; Cougle, 2002), was 
done at the Elliot Institute as Ms. Olson noted. The 
primary researcher .issue iated with the Elliot Institute is 
David Reardon, whose stated goal is to use research to 
support the righi-tn-lile argument that abortion harms 
women psychologically (see www.afterabortion.org), 
and to use this research to change public opinion and 
ultimately the law. Research done by this group (e.g., 
Reardon. Coleman. &amp; ( ougle. 21)0-1; Reardon et al„ 2003) 
has regularly been critiqued on methodological grounds 
by. more mainstream academic researchers (Billings, 
2002; Goddik. 2002; Kahn, 2002; Major. 2003a, 2003b; 
Rubin &amp; Russo, 201) 1: Russo &amp; Denious, 2005). 

The bulk of the cudeni e Minpk does not support a 
claim that mental health difficulties are caused solely 
by having an abortion As scientists, we know that most 
research on human behavior is complex, that many 
factors affect mental health, and that we must draw our 
conclusions from "the big picture," rather than from a 



Consistent with this larger pattern, t 

Psychological Association nor the American Psychiatric 

Association recognize "post-abortion" syndrome. 

We agree with Ms t )lson that this is a sensitive topic, 



to provide people with "informed consent" in advance 
of a medical procedure We agree Where we disagree 
is with her conclusion that informing people that they 
might suffer psychological consequences after choosing 
abortion is a "fair and balanced" piece of information. 
Rather, we assert again that the hulk of the evidence 
does not support such a conclusion. Informing people 
that research supports something akin to post-abortion 
syndrome has more potential to harm them than to 
help them. Specifically, proninting the notion of an 
increased risk for psychological problems directly 

atlributable to abort itself can only induce guilt and 

fear; such negative reactions have the potential in and 
of themselves to create more psychological turmoil 
surrounding tliis very complicated situation. 

None of us think dial I, icing an unwanted pregnancy 
is a trivial life event, nor do we think that any of the 
possible outcomes are trivial. It would be far better if 
effective education about sexuality and contraception 
would lead to delaying si-xual intercourse until one is 
able and willing to use effective contraception except 
when one desires to have a child. Yet, given that 
an unwanted prcgnain \ lias taken place, there is no 
convincing evidence that abortion 
negative consequences 



PLEASE RECYCLE 
THIS PAPER 



Foster a Republican candidate 



My name is Sharice i'endergrass. 
maiden name foster, and Mike Foster 
(Foster lor. Sheriff] is my dad. lam also a 
student at IPFW. 

In your article you stated that you 
knew nothing ahum foster, but if you 



occasionally, you would know at least a 
little hit about him. 

You would know that he is the only 
African American Republican candidate 



questions about who luster is before 
you wrote the article. I'm sure .someone 
would have told you something. If you 
have any more questions as to who 
Foster is, ask me. 

I'm around campus all the time. Oh, 
and by the way, it would be wise of you 
not to touch ANYONE'S signs. This is 
still a free country &lt; ORRECT7 

My dad is an honest man; I'm sure 
you're not familiar with this. As far as 
his party affiliation, that sign you took 
so much time to read clearly states 
Republican. 

aware ol tins I am also curious as to why And yes, there is a lot of money spent 

you chose to write an article about foster on those signs. All donations were from 
when there are tons ol signs everywhere concerned citi/ens for Foster, 
that say "Fries for Sheriff." 

I know you didn't miss those. If the 
signs bother you so much, surely those 
signs at every intersection would have 
drawn your attention a lot quicker than 
the few I osier signs out there. Sftarice Pendergrass 

Maybe you should have asked some Public Affairs 

Health Fair positive contribu- 



Thank you for the recent articles o 
the 17th Annual IPFW Health Fair an 
Alcohol Awareness /Screening Day, 

lam grateful T 
these two healtt 
for students and 

Realizing that 25 percent of college 
students report academic problems 
because of alcohol and drug use, more 
than 150,000 students develop alcohol 
related health problems, and each year 
nearly 1400 students die due to alcohol 
poisoning, the more important it is 
to continually offer health education, 
skills, resources and support to students, 



healthy messages in I'he Communicator 
so more and more students, faculty and 
staff are encouraged and motivated to 
have healthy habits. 

For any student seeking assistance 
with a mental, emotional, relationship, 
alcohol or substance abuse problem 
Uiey can call IPFW Personal Counseling 
al ill! lil.DI for a iree consultation. 



Judy Tillapaugh. RD 

IPFWWellness/Fitness Coordinator 



Class interruptions are 
inappropriate behavior 



Staff Column 



time class has already started. In one 
of my afternoon classes, a gentleman is 
constat! lly arriving late for c lass between 
20 minutes to a half an hour late. 

It's not like the guy slips in the back 
door quietly, t" " 



I think this kind of distraction takes 
away from my learning. We only have so 
many weeks out of the school year that 



front of the r 

the door open and v 



loudly. He throws 
ilks across the front 
tie. Let me just say. 



&gt;p there, though. Hel 
II us some random s 
rg to do with what v 
it the present t 



to sit in class and leam s 
will benefit me litter down the road. 
1 don't need to hear stories in the 

middle of class that has nothing to do 
with what I'm learning. It's an annoyance 



It's 






for him to finish I 



t every single class t 

nil. liki-t lockwnik I hear 



wish he would al least be considerate to 
the rest of us who are thereon time and 
slip in the door quietly. 

anything except to ask the person next 
to him what he missed so far. THis 
situation is different because the person 
is not cutting into class time by slipping 
in quietly, unseen. 

1 also wish this person would wait 
until after class to tell us some story 
about how his day is going so far. The 
interruption of the story during class 



ethis disrupts class flow. I lose my t 



I Find it not only to be di^nitiug 
disrespectful, too. It's not only 
■espectful to us, but the professor 



The G iMMUNIOtn IH 



A&amp;E 



Arts&amp; Entertainment 



Movie's premise is far from original 



Film Review 



melds their style of 
In an ironic iwisi. the new dance release, "Take Dulaine's and. logetli 
(he Lead,' bo.isis ihe inline: Never follow." 1 up creating a whole 
find this odd because it Is far from an original Plus, because 
premise. It comes in the wake of "greats" like dance to ol&lt; 
"Center Stage." "Nave the l-ast Dance" and. of bitchin' soniKltr.uk 



York how to dance. Naturally, these kids ; 
less than receptive to what Mr. 
nulaine has lo say. But magically, 
they decide that dar 



. "Dirty Dancing." Hear i 



mud 



Over the 
far from the school rejects 

referred 



other aspects are horrible, 

siiiiHtinies. iht' soundtrack ar 
the Lead" is no different. 

StarringAntoiim U.mdeias, AllreWoodard and 
sonic other newer faces - I'll get Hi them in a 
second - "lake the I .cad" is based on the life of 
Pierre Dulainc Dnlaine ilfanderasl is a retired 
ballroom dancer who takes it upon himself 



" two hours, 
the kids are 
the film) become 
respectful and considerate 
dancing machines. They can 
salsa. They can tango. They 
do the rumba. Not 
the foxtrot and waltz are nailed 
I was be-bopping in my 




"Take the Lead" 
ng: Antonio Banderas, 
Liotla, Dante Basco 

&gt;cted by: Liz FriedlanrJer 

ied:PG-13 
Time: 108 minutes 

* * * 



i fundamentally bad doesn't 

it's unentertaining. "Take the 
Lead" proves that. With a cast 

5 great fun 
1, Dante Basco 
(that's right, he was Rufl-Oh in 
"Hook") was a popped-collar 
dancer. How can that be bad?! 
(There's my pesky sarcasm 
again.) Rufio notwithstanding. 






teach a bunch of delinquents 



Now, don't get me wrong, the movie was 

stupid. It was poorly written and just a: 

school in New poorly acted. But no matter, just because ; 



► DANCE: Page A7 






Getting buck wild 



Commentary 



guitar riffs and crazy hair, these guys 
rocked the stage; and furthermore 
they rocked the crowd! This band has 
been around since mid 1995. They are 
not a well-known band among teens 
"Happy birthday, dear Joshua, happy nowadays hut tin those of us who like 
rock and roll and have been around for a 
while, we should know of them and like 
their music. They put on a mighty show 
and displayed a great performance and 
energy for the residents of Fort Wayne 



the lead singer of Buck cherry, loshua 
Todd, takes the stage for his birthday 
cake blowout special as they go on for an 



k and roll, this is 
w bands that you should £ 
e just plain crazy. 

I mm sun idalkme,talluusi 



surrounding ; 



I will 



Billboard chart 
topper is best rap 
album of 2006 



Album Review 



It a surprise rap allium was a inemhei ot the royal lamilv, 1 
n pretty sure that it would be king. 
And no, not just any king, but more specifically "King." the 
fourth album from rapper I.I. that has been tearing apart the 



billboard and other charts s 

It has been a long time sin- 
was worthy of purchase, and i 

that I am disappointed with it 
mostly solid and even when it I 



release. 

e I have heard a rap disc that 
i/en when they do come, they 
;rest from me and I can't say 
From start to end, the disc is 
its a low point, the high points 



before I 






"King Back," 
t gets stronger and 
te listening. 
After taking another 
step back, T.l. finds 







s disc is that T.l. has a 



feature is always i 



Lunchbox offers eaters 
old-fashioned cooking 
and rare hospitality 



McCain's 'Lost in America' mundane 

■ Singer/songivi iter s disc is first since 2004, number seven overall 



Restaurant Review 



Rochester, Indiana with a population of 
only 6,414, small "ma and pop" shops 
are on every corner. I hese locally owned 



simple atmosphere. 

However, currently residing in Fori 
Wayne is quite different. With fast food 
chains and franchise restaurants placed 
on every block, finding this type of old- 
fashioned cooking and hospitably is a 
rarity - until one stumbles across The 
Lunchbox. 

Gerhard and Evelyn lleinecke have 
locally owned Ihe Lunchbox. located 
at 5722 Maplecrest Road, for eleven 
years now. As I ventured there with one 
of my best friends, Katie, we walked 
in around 12:45 in the afternoon and 
instantly flashbacks of Rochester came 
into my head. The wall decor is quite a 
sight, decorated with old 
pictures and menus from the past 
up to ihe present. Katie and I chc 



sit at the t 

looking, but quite comfortable stools. 
We were quickly greeted with a big "Hi! 
Welcome to The Lunchbox! Can 1 get 
you girls somethin' to drink?" as we 
were handed us a few simple menus. 

Browsing the menu, the first thing 
I notice is the writing that says all the 
food is homemade here. I immediately 
knew [he food was sure to be great. The 
next thing I notice is the variety! My 
goodness, there were so many things 
to choose from. Wanting to get a full 
experience I chose a cheeseburger and 
French fries, along with an order of 
onion rings for Katie and I to share. 

As we waited for the food to arrive I 
took more notice of the walls and the 
people cooking. I happened to notice 
an older man standing over the grill 
cooking right alongside some of the 



enough to where one feels comfortable. 
Like most ma and pop shops, yes, the 
older man was indeed the owner. Even 
in a few other locally owned places 



o work there, but when you 
ne so dedicated it is really 
► LUNCHBOX: Page A7 



Album Review 

By Andrew Maurer 

The Independent Collegian 
(U. of Toledo) 



(U-WIRE) TOLEDO. Ohio - North Carolina sin. 

songwriter Edwin McCain seems to use a tried-a 

formula of pop rock to please everyone i 

Best known for the singles "I'll Be" and "I Could Not 
Ask for Mote," McCain was signed to Atlantic Records 
around the same time as ilootie and the Blowfish and 
Dave Matthews, and lite these bands, bis sound is an 
attempt to make music which appeals to a wide range of 
everyday people. 

Unfortunately, this emphasis on accessibility can 
mean a sacrifice ol the ci intent and depth which McCain 
is capable of achieving. 

McCain sets the tone of the album with the first track 
and single, the straight -ahead pop rocker "Cramercy 
Park Hotel." 

Whatever message McCain has on this track is 
undermined by a "la-de-da-de-da" chorus which the 
album's press release ilesi rihes as' sing- a -long"; however, 
all but the most drunken listeners will probably find it a 
link- embarrassing. 

McCain manages to he relatively unembarrassing 
on the album's other tracks, though several -- such as 
"The Kiss," "Truly Believe" and "Losing Tonight" - are 
eminently forgettable. 

The real problem pLguirie, i in- album is a distinct lack 
of subtlety. 

This trend is apparent in ihe tit lei rack, which attempts 
to deal with the subject of an American working class 



that has been presented with unrealistic goals it doesn't 
have the means to achieve. 

McCain fails to die; a in deeper into the cliche issue 
lyrically or musically. 

Like this track, several ol the album's other songs, 
including"Blackand Blue' and' Welcome to Si ruggleville." 
attempt to mount a social critique but embody an 
outmoded musical stains quo thai undermines their 
effectiveness. 

There's a comparison between the task McCain has set 
tin ■ himself with this sung ami i b.it ot Sufjan Si 




mind me of I lootie and the Rlowfish. 

something strangely comforting about 
r generic album, but I wouldn't recommend 



P'uverlul and reli-vaiil \ 



■■.',-•: . 



imm 



Sasha, was unnecessary, she docs u spectacular salsa at 
the end of the movie. After watching Dewan, I wanted 
to go to the nearest dame studio and insist that they 
teach me to move like tier. Of course, it'd take years for 
me to even be a qoan it as good as Dewan is. This girl is 
so good that she's toured with Dukly i dial's what he goes 
by now, right?) and Janet Jackson - not a bad resume 
considering she's tint mm h older than I am. 

Bandcras and Wool 1. 1 rduavetlieir usual performances. 



forWoodard. this is the second consecutive flick in which 
I've done little more than tolerate her. I'm disappointed 
more than I can say. Sties usually so good. 

Overall, "Take the Lead" was b fast-paced romp. The 
kids- 1 shouldn't call them kids, must ire older than me - 
t whole, worth watching But. if you go tor no 
for the dancing. If you're not tapping 



your toes midway through, there may be something 
seriously wrong with you. 



melted cheese straiee.ii a!K f &gt;l.i. ed and t uverine, the ede.es like a blanket With the i hecseburger &lt; 

and a dill pickle spear; however. I had ordered fries and onion rings ami hoy did they look good. The French fries 

were sizzling and tin inn rings h. id thai pcrfeci i rispiucsson the outside With so much loud in front of me I didn't 

know where to begin! hiking the hrsi bite into the cheeseburger it tasted just as it it was made at home on the grill. 
Cooked just the right amount oi lime and the bun slightly toasted Hie fries melted in your mouth, and the onion 
rings - well thev were just irresistible. 

After managing to slurp down three ice cold cokes that were always promptly refilled when half empty, and 
consuming all that delicious food, I could not resist a piece of the homemade pie 1 read the board on which they 
had written what kinds ol pies were available that day and I qtiickh chose ihe chocolate pie. 

The pie came out overwhelming the small sauter it had been placed on. from the homemade crust to the rich 
chocolate filling and the fluffy topping, tins pie was heaven. It was the kind ol pie thai when you take a bite, you close 
your eyes just so you can savor more of the flavor. 

Now being so full 1 &lt; mild hardly move. I decided it was time to go. We got our separate bills and when I went to 
the register to pay. all th.it delii tuns homemade loud only cost me S 12.52! Leaving with a smile is something often 
dune alter dining at the Lunchbox. 

This restaurant is an excellent place to eat no matter your age or the occasion. Open Monday through Friday, 
10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.. Saturday 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. and closed Sundays and holidays. 1 would be tickled pink if this food 



i my lunchbox when I v 



.nhild 



XL takes a page out of the Kanye West/Jamie Foxx 
playbook with the sound, but comes off far more 
interesting than "Slow Jams" ever did. 

The chorus: "Life's up and downs they come and go 
.... but when I die I hope I live in the sky ... All my folks 
who ain't alive I hope ihey live in the sky ... pray to God 
when 1 die that I live in the sky ... It's true what goes 
around comes back you know ... So when 1 die I hope I 
love in the sky ... All my' folk who ain't survive may they 
live in the sky ...Tell God 1 wanna fly and let me live in the 
sky." is one of the strongest I have heard on an R&amp;B or 
hip-hop track in a long time, may he in the top five ever. 






i such a standoi 



; that has gotten quite 



'Ride Wit Me" is the best of die traditional rap tracks 
on this disc because it just feels like something that you 
can dance to, drive in your car to or just relax or listen to. 
And any song that can run that gambit has to be strong. 

XL finds another golden track with "Goodlife" 
featuring a pair of hip-hop legends in Pharrell of The 
Neptunes and Common Hy reh in g on these two legends, 
XL had to have grown so much as an artist. 

This song ts a great way to begin to wind down the 
disc thai was destined hiIum Billboard favorite for some 



Please Recycle 
This Newspaper 



prestigious NCAA and ACC 



■ hie.be&gt; 



ranked within the top 10 for the entire 
year, and both teams advanced to the 
Sweet lb before being eliminated from 
the NCAA Tournament. 

"We're both very competitive," Uedick 
said. "The main thing about it was to 
ball games, and I 



that he was not upset about losing to his 
close friend. 

"He's had a great career," Morrison 
said. "That's the way it goes. 1 know what 



toward the end of I ehruarv. Uedick s 



They have to beat Penn State and 
Hutgers-Newark this weekend to prove 
that they can beat quality teams from 
outside the MlVA.That is one thing they 
have struggled with this year. Despite a 
close game with long beach Stale and 
battles with Cal State-Norihtidge, Hall's 
team has only really dominated Pacific 
of all the teams they play that are not in 
the MIVA, 

And beyond that. Ihey have lo win 
matches in the MIVA Tournament. 
Three wins and they reach the Final 
Four, something they haven't achieved 



He then moved into first place on 
the ACC scoring charts against Temple 
Feb. 25, He ended his career with 2,769 
points. The Roanoke, Va., native also 
finished as the NCAA's all-time career 
leadei in tree throw percentage. 

Uedick is ihe sixth Duke player to win 
the award, joining Christian Laettncr, 
Elton Brand, Shane Battier, lasnn 
Williams anil Alalia Heard, who won two 
years ago to become the first woman to 

LSU's Seimone Augustus, a 6-foot-l 
senior, capped her ex. eptional collegiate 
career by winning the women's Wooden 
Award. She lias won the women's award 
each of the past two seasons, 



limn doing last year. 

Honestly. Carthage (our first round 
opponent! should be an easy victory, 
yet I am happy in knowing that the 
team won't look by this team who we 
dismantled 11-0 at the beginning of the 



* supporters realize this fact and 
me to cheer on (he Mastodons as 



this 



Ihe NCAA has conducted two tests in Ihe past U months. Pope said. 
The NCAA News said in a recent report dial the Ml A.\ will ■ undue! drug testing 
id focus primarily on football and baseball players, but any Division 



1 athlete could be subject t 

Said Mary Wtlleri, ihe NCAA's associate director u! education outreach and staff 
liaison to the committee, in the report: "We've previously been hesitant to test 
inlo the summer months, because ol concerns abuul extending student -athletes' 
pa ni. ip.it inn in a spoil beyond a lradinun.il season and also logeaual concerns. Bui 

ir even If athletes 



specifics ul the N( VVs d 



GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 



We're hiring students NOW, part-time and FULL-TIME! 



lomJUHIilJ llJNrLdJiUN! 




Flexible Hours and GREAT PAY!! 

Route Delivery Positions Available 
We Offer 10-40+ Hours/Week! 

$8.00 to SI 2.00+ /Hour 

Great part-time hours are available and we offer schedule flexibility. Wort&lt; around your 

school schedule with morning/afternoon and weekend hours. 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! 

Train in one facility during school, and work in another during summer break! 

Schedule an interview today and bring a friend! 

CALL TODAY: 1 (800) 622-6566 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



Initec 

Art and Education 





LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



Join our warehouse team in a fun, friendly environment. 

■ Work part-time now/full-time in the summer. 

■ Duties include order filling, (rew«s&lt; m ,™ae n «xfwi.»»70i*j 

■ Starting at $7.50/hour. 

United Art and Education • Monday - Friday 9am-5pm • 4413 Airport Expressway 




1 'VI .».: 



wanted H&gt; play and li was t hr.ip fur i 
st.-iy (here- fin British Columbia)." 

During his time ai Camosan College, 
Lundeen was the Brilish Columbia 
Colleges' Aihleiic Association Player of 
the Year in 2005 and was two-iime CCAA 
Academic All-Canadian. 

seder and 

learned alii 



After meeting with Ball and assistani 
coach Ryan Penotie, Lundeen made the 
decision to bring his game and his last two 
years of eligibility to 1PFW where he was 
told that he would take over right away as 

From the get-go, Lundeen has become 
a different kind of setter, consistently 
excelling as a blocker and even as an 
attacker from time to time. 

Lundeen has 60 kills, fifth on the team, 
and is third behind Scrdar Sikca and losh 
Stewart in blocks, averaging 1.19 per game 



ligh this season came in four games 
Ball State on Feb. 17 with, i total or 
67. Lundeen has also set up hitters with 



sof66. 62 and 57 this s 



i end up fifth on the list by 



ha-, mid mi thai he \ 



c videos down to the 
Slates and he told mc I should send some 
to IPFW." 



ppreciative. As her older brother I know she looked up to 
I always looked up (o her, too, and it's obvious that a It 



linn li larger goal. 

"Our goal is to wit 

championship," he staled. 



nearby university, have m&lt; kc-tl both Duke .mil the community of 
Durham, North Carolina. 

Coach Mike Pressler resigned, the lacrosse season was 
cancelled and .1 player has been suspended Iron) die school as a 
result ol the allegata 



Duke lacrosse team legal update 

DNA results failed to connect any o 
lacrosse players to an alleged rape that 
team party. The news came at a press cot 
10 held by lawyers for the i 



Protests across the campus and community, especially near 
' the Duke University the property of the party house, have been ongoing since the 
ook place at a recent allegations were made public. 

ference Monday, April Distrii t Attorney Mike Nifong said he is still confident a rape 

occurred. Court documents said a medical exam of the alleged 
me of the Duke men's victim found injuries consistent with sexual assault. 

According to Thomas, another photo shows the woman 
standing outside the door ol 'the off-campus house with "a major 



Durham attorney Hill Thomas, who declined to identify the 
player he represents, said some of the photographs - taken when 
the woman arrived at the party house indicate the woman was 
injured before getting to the party on March 13. The pictures 
show extensive bruises on het legs, espei tally around the knees. 

Thomas said he would not release the photos, taken by at least 
two cameras, until the DNA tests were completed. As of April 10. 
the photos had not been released. 



contradicting her 



inside, apparently 
j police that she was scared and 
feared for her salety belore briefly leaving the house and then 
returning when i on vi need by the players. 

The woman told police she was pulled into a bathroom and 
assaulted after coming hack into the house. Thomas said she 
locked herself in the bathroom, where poliie found her purse, 
cell phone and several artificial lingemaih she claimed to have 
lost during a struggle with her attackers. 

Thomas added that one of the attorneys representing a team 
member had interviewed another dancer at the party extensively, 
and she said the alleged victim never told her about a rape. 



i school mark in the 



alone Hcr cfTorI was S ootl for fowl" 



Individual records fell in the 
■100 meter hurdles, the High 
lump and the 4X400 relay. 
Brooke Newman finished with 
a time of 1:06.97 in the 400 
meter hurdles. Suel's jump of 
five feet, three inches was good 



With the title r 
IPFW came out in 
still wanting K 
straight w 
by as man 
the help 
from Ullrich. But Loyola ral- 
lied back again with the help of 
some IPFW attack errors. A kill 
from Kozlarek topped a mid- 
game run of four points that 
put Loyola up 17-16. 

The Mastodons crawled 
back ahead at 25-23 on a kill 
by Sikca, but a kill by Rambler 



for eighth in the High lump 
competition. The 4X400 relay 
team of Newman. Angle Suel, 
Valerie Hardesty and Brandy 
Swing took seventh with a time 
of 4: 12.73. 

IPFW finished 13th of out 16 
teams and scored 12.5 points. 
Miami of Ohio won with a score 
of 164.5. 

"Overall, the meet was a 
success," coach Mike Fruchey 
press release. "It 



the competiti 



• here and 



would not score again from 
there. A Nelson service ace and 
two Mastodon attack errors 
would give Loyola the win and 
put IPFW against the ropes, 
down 2-1. 

IPFW suffered nine attack 
errors and three service errors 
in the game. Their total of 30 
attack errors in the match tied 
for second worst on the season 
for the team. Only against Cal 
State-Northridge on Jan. 20 did 
they have n 



fantastic This will really help 
our freshmen to continue to 
develop." 



clicking after the first match. 
Our passing wasn't as good as 
usual which really affected the 
setting, which made it tough to 
put balls away to sideout," said 
Macias. 

Came four was also back 
and forth but still seemed like 
little more than a formality for 
Loyola as Grunst and Kozlarek 

third hitter in Nelson. Nelson 
had three of his 11 total kills 
in the final four Loyola points 
of game four to help wrap up 
the wit 



villi .11 



games remain for IPFW as they 
will host both Perm State and 
Rutgers- Newark this weekend. 



of confidence going i 



"1 don't know v 



Indiana Wrvlevan's miM.ike. singles by Jessica 
Mast. Healtice I'edra/a and IV Lambert scored 
Michelle Mcighen to take the lead, 1-0. 



The second game started out just as low- 
coring as the first. One run by the Wildcats 
early on was the only run until the fifth, when 
junior second basemen lunior Ashley Johnson 
bit her first home run ol the season over the 
left center wall to tie the game. Sophomore 
Abby Liden continued the inning with 
to right-center and sc 

Ikwcliy singled oil of the Indiana Wesley art's 
pitcher's wrist, tuning a ■ badge of pitcher for the 



Wildcats. 

Again, however, 
going' 



in the heart, and we can't do that,'" 
plagued the Mastodons IPFW plays host to Notre Dame College e 

the top of the seventh and final inning. Thursday. April I 1 at :i p.m. Then the Mastodons 



AVCA polls 
display few 
changes 



Volleyball 
Coaches Association poll 
released April 11 showed no 



poll. glMIl) 

(20-5) who 

but not cracked the top 15 for 

the last several weeks. 

IPFW remained in 12th place 
after a loss to No. 9 Loyola- 
Chicago, who also did not see a 
change in its ranking. 

UC-lrvine stayed No. 1 while 
BYU dropped fxoi 



Pepperdi 

dropped a spot. Penn Stat 
leapfroged USC to break 
the top ten. Ohio State dropped 




Three errors and only one hit scored 

and left the MaModons wondering what could 
have been. lhe\ gave up a 2- 1 lead and lost 3-2. 
In response to the final inning IPFW coach 
Keith fisher said, "We cant make errors, we can't 
drop balls, whelhei it''- against Indiana VV'esleyan 
or Michigan Slate or whoever We gave the ball 



head to Valparaiso on April 1 ". lor a double-header 
and then Indiana on April lfi and IWI'lll on the 
19th. The next home game is Thursday, April 20 



Notice from the Board of Directors 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 

is accepting applications from 

members of the IPFW student body 

for a seat on the Board of Directors. 

Interested individuals should 

contact Tracy Warner by 

April 17 at the following address: 

Tracy Warner 

President, Board of Directors 

Neff343 

2101 Coliseum Blvd. E. 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

— 



Our pizza is back and 
better than ever! 




Double Slice $^99 
Pepperoni Pizza^ 



FREE regular soft drink anytin 



$lOFF$ 5 °f more 
: purchase 




Let us Cater your graduation party! 



Will:"-- 



1^3 



Dealing with the good, bad and ugly 



week he had to delve into a bit of the bad. 

The Mastodons were outscored 44-10 

losses to Dayton and Bowling Green on ba 

to-back days, dropping the team to 11 



the good things you need to t 
about the bad things as well, 
was pretty bad," Gemon said 
one of those weeks where we ji 

I NEXT WEEK: 
Looking at the baseball 
team senior class and 
how they have developed. 






the NCAA Tournament a year ago. Willi ihraid 
of a 30 mph wind blowing out at IIMW In-ld. 
the Flyers were able to abuse tlie Mastodons' 
pitching throughout the day. 

Typically. 1PFW is able to match a team hit 
for hit when the wind is blowing out, but last 
week was the exception. 

"For soitR' reason. I doni kiniw what K was. 
we just couldn't get the bats going," Gernon 
said. "Some people would think they were 
running up the score, but when you are in a 
game where you can rack off 10 runs in an 



inning, and especially with a gm id hitting team 
like ours, you have to keep scoring runs." 

i the game 



Despite Gen ion's nigingth.it the icon forget 
about the loss and concentrate on Bowling 
Green the next day. IPFW just couldn't and 
lost 16-3. 

"We were in that situation where anyone 
we put on the mound just got rocked." Gernon 
said "I just wanted to end the week as quick 
as I could." 

While the pitching sure didn't fare well in 
the two games, there were some bright spots, 
unhiding Itcslnnan outfielder Quint in Umwn. 
who hit his first collegiate home run in the 
Howling Green loss. 

Brown saw action due to the struggles 
of Sean Kirk, who was one of the leading 
hitters for the Mastodons a year ago. Brown is 
currently leading the team in batting average 
(.462), slugging percentage (.654) and on-base 
percentage (.559). 

"We like Sean a lot and I know that one of 
these days he is going to break out of this," said 
Gernon about Kirk, who is batting just .JII9 
"Qui ntin came in ,im\ did ,i sensational job lie 
is the most coach. iMe player I have ever had. 
and that is saving something because we have 
had a lot of team players mine through here." 

IPFW will attempt to get back to .fiOO with 
games at Centra! Mulligan and Ball State 
helore beginning a font-game two-day series 
with Chicago State at home beginning this 
Saturday. 




End of streak 
does not mean 
end of hopes 



VIEW: Eric Lambert (shown vs. Central 
Michigan) is 2-4 for the Mastodons. 



IPFW takes rehab approach to drugs 



By Nick West 



IPFW's drug testing policy &lt; 
student-athletes has obvious 
similarities and one stark contrast 
compared to the NCAA's. 

Both give tests on a completely 



, including the 
recent addition of caffeine and 
ephedrine; and the definition of 
a positive test depend; 



approach II'IAV lias a three strike 
system for student-athletes who 
test positive for a banned drug; 
testing positive under NCAA 

guidelines results in ineligibility 
for one calendar year alter i he dale 

"The purpose for our drug 
policy is rehabilitation, rather 
than something that is punitive," 
IPFW Athletic Director Mark Pope 
said. "What we are hoping to do 
with our policy is to inform the 
student athlete of the mistake he 
or she has made." 

IPFW athletic trainer Dan Fox 
began drawing up the guidelines 
for the school's drug testing policy 
six years ago ,\w.\ ii was approved 
in 2003. He said it took a while 
to develop because it was critical 
to pinpoint what worked best for 



different drug lesiing policies 
based on tin' structure of its athletic 
department. Fox believes the three 
strike system helps identify the 
problem and then fixes it. 

"We get (the student-athletes) 
a personal counselor to identily 
the problem," he said. "And then 
we find out there is more to it ... 
that (the drug] was their release. 
Money, parents, girlfriends, 
boyfriends, being homesick, 




of people will hide behind 

'Let's get you 

"It's a confidential thing; it's a 
personal matter. We are not going 
to pry into their personal life. We 
will follow up, check in with the 
player and see if they are making 
appointments and strides, but we 
aren't going to bug them about it." 

The first offense results in 
fixation of the athletic 



ilisereiionol ihccoach. I he second 
repeats the procedure of the first 
step but the suspension is usually 
more severe. The third results 
in dismissal from the athletic 
program the student-athlete was 



Fox said 40 tests have been 

But we say, administered this athletic season 

i.' and he shoots to test at least 25 

percent of the student-athletes 

at IPFW. Twenty-five percent of 

IPFW's 211 student-athletes is 



► DRUGS: Page A7 



In All Directions 



So the day Ii 






s almost as depressing as ih.ii fictional day in 
\lnd\ille when Mighty I asey" struck out. 

Bui I have no poems or rhymes to describe 
the tragic end to this brilliant streak. No henrt- 
wienehing words about how the Mastodon men's 
volleyball team saw a school record winning streak 



n conference title 

offer is gratitude and 
m who has been an 
erallseason, especially 



&gt;ln all in one night. 

Instead, all that 1 have t&lt; 
congratulations for this te 
ama/ingoneto watch and co 
those li.t days of perfection. 

much as I can guarantee sol thai they are far from 
done this season. 

Instead, they will continue on this movie-like 
journey until they simply can't go on any further. 
With their cast ol characters that is so Disney 
movie -es(|nc (the legendary coach, the strong senior 
leaders and mellow stai players, among others] and 
an epic storyline setting (let's not remember thai 
this team was only supposed to he the setup for 
next year's magical run), the Mastodons are far 
beyond jusi being ,i footnote. 

They are a very young team with just 
six upperclassmen, two seniors. Of those 
upperckissrnen. one is a new player and only three 
have been signifiiant lomribuinis J hat is why this 

j the setup season just as HWJ was supposed to 






be a 

i and their c 

Nobody associated with the program has allowed 
themselves to consider themselves a setup team or 
second rate. Instead, they have always strived for 
the best and taken their amazing season one match 
at a time, a philosophy thai has worked like gold. 

Sixteen matches went by I Feb, 3 to April 

8, and Arnte Hall led his learn to eight 3-0 sweeps 
and only saw the matches go five games on two 
occasions. The point of this fact: the Mastodons 
have been dominant. That is what makes last 
Friday's loss to loyola-Chicagu ibai much harder. 

But for anyone who is even considering that int- 
end of an amazing streak and &lt; dances to win the 
Midwestern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association 
title means the end of hope for Mastodon nation 

Now we all have a lot more to look forward to. 

Talking to sophomore outside hitter C.J. Macias, 
you can tell that he is ready to play ball come this 
weekend anil maybe [hopefully) ihe loss to Loyola 

s just a bump in the road, a relreshcr, if you will. 



\iiw, the Mastodons b.ivc u 



► IAD: Page M 






ASPEN 

COFFEE C&lt;|^ 




(OASII I) COKKEE 



vim 



Aspen Coffee is Fort Wayne's home for premium 
coffees, distinct bulk roasts, and fresh baked pastries 
and breads from the Mill Bread Company. Stop in 
and relax by the fire, enjoy free Internet access and 
flat screen TVs, or visit our drive through on the way 
to work. Aspen Coffee. Make it yours. 




The Communicator 



Sports 



National 
Headlines 

at a glance 




Redick adds 
Wooden to 
honors list 

By Mike Van Pelt 



ICSTV U-W1RE) DURHAM, 
N.C. - I.I. Redick added another 
irophy to liis mantel Saturday. 

Duke's all-time leading 
scorer won the John R. Wooden 
Award as the nation's best 
college basketball player in the 
third-closest balloting in the 
hi si on, i if i he award. 

Redick narrowly won over 
his friend and Gonzaga junior 

"I'm extremely honored to 
receive this award," Redick said. 
"All the candidates were very 
deserving. I never set out to win 
individual awards. To win is just 
a huge honor." 

Morrison finished 72 points 
behind Redick, followed by 
Duke's Shelden Williams in 
third, Villanova's Randy Foye 
in fourth and Washington's 
hr.iiulnn Hoy in fifth. 

With the Wooden in hand, 
Redick completed a sweep of 
all the major player of the year 
awards this season, despite 
the fact thai Morrison finished 
ahead of Redick in scoring for 



Mark Few said. "1 don't know 
► REDICK: Page A7 

Army coach 
dies at 28 

Staff &amp; News Reports 



Army women's basketball 
coach Maggie Dixon died last 
Thursday. April 6 at the age of 

An autopsy conducted on 
April 7 found that Dixon had an 
enlarged heart and a problem 
with a heart valve. The valve 
could have caused her heart to 
beat irregularly and ultimately 



collapsing at a friend's house 
before her death the following 



on i-riday with about 500 people 
filling the Catholic Chapel on 
the U.S. Military Academy's 
campus in Valhalla, N.Y. 

Just one month before, 

court after leading the Army 
women's basketball team to its 
first NCAA Tournament berth 
with a victory in the Patriot 
League conference tournament 
championship game. It was 
just her first year coaching the 
program. 

"Maggie touched so many 
people beyond basketball," 



► DIXON: PageAB 



Unearned runs cripple Mastodons in last four 



Jipfw. 



The youthful pitchers have 

been improving, but aren't ana evi 

gt-uinc much help from their giving 

defense. walks a 

1PFW lost four games last victory, 
i up 21 



another error and hit in the 
sixth scored the fifth run. 
Detroit got solid pitching 



-l tin- fifth when i Irlr.ill s 



the 



Sophomore Natalie Clark 

relieved Connelly but the 

Detroit bats continued hitting. 

game, By the end of the inning, 



the process - just 13 of them sophomore lenna Connelly Detroit had tallied nine hits for 

earned. took the mound for the eight runs. The game ended in 

Five hits were all freshman Mastodons. A quick start by the fifth afier IPFW failed to 

Katie Aspegren gave up in Detroit in the first turned answer and lost 12-0. All runs 

the first of two games against into three runs on four hits, in this game were earned. 

Detroit Mercy on April 6. Connelly and the rest of the Determined to counteract 

IPFW also had five hits, but defense battled back in the the losses on April 6. the team 

tin' difference ill (lie game was second, holding Detroit entereditsApnl'klmiMche.nti.-! 
defense. 

Out of the five r 
by Detroit, none Wt 




■ iiagi'il our hit by fri'shmai 



by Chad Ryan I cryan@iprwcommunicator.org 

PITCH: Katie Aspegren delivers a pitch in the Mast- 



April 10. Aspegren picked up her third win. 



Streak snapped 

■ Men's volleyball team sees 16-match run end at the hands of 2006 MIVA champs 




on the losing end of the spectrum for the first time since Feb. 
3 after a 3-1 (34-32. 24-30, 27-30, 26-30) loss to conference 
leading Loyola-Chicago last Friday. 

"Everyone was pretty pleased with how long the streak had 
Hune Inn ii doesn't ma tier how many you win it just makes you 
wanna win more," Sophomore C.|. Macias said. "There is no 
fun way to lose and we kind of forgot what it felt like." 

Going into the match, the Mastodons needed to beat the 
Ramblers it) and hold them under 73 points to win the regu- 
lar season MIVA title, which instead is headed to Loyola. The 
Ramblers are 10-1 in the conference while IPFW finishes 9-3 
and will be a two-seed in the MIVA tournament. 

In the opening game, the Mastodons came out hitting hard 
against Li Rambler leam thai had previoush beaten them 3-0. 
I he first game went back and forth with IPFW getting the first 
game point at 29-28 on a kill from Josh Stewart. 

"It was a pretty fun game (and) it fell real good to win it. 
Ii was pretty challenging but I think we knew we were gonna 



Macias had eight of his match high 28 kills in the first 

Game two was again back and forth for much of the time 
with i hris Kozlarek and James Grunst being the difference for 
the Ramblers. The pair com- 
bined for 14 kills in the game | MCVTUUEC| , 
with Grunst having the game IWCAI WEEK 

winner. previewing the MIVA 

ipfw had things tied up iTournament. What are 

at 23, but a service error by l|PFW's chances? 

Mai ia-. .nid five straight attack ■ 

errors by the Mastodons gave 

the Ramblers a game point. Sikca put down one more kill for 

IPFW, but it was not enough to spatk a game two comeback, 

ending IPFW's hopes for a MIVA title. 

"We tried not to focus on the points right from the start 
; definitely on everyone's mind. I think everyone was 



i three as well." he added. 



e thought we were gonna win the 



► SNAPPED: Page A8 



Lundeen taking his turn at setter 




a long and storied history 



Everyone knows 

: former three-time All-Ameriean 

ho went on to be the captain of the 

niied suies Olympic team. In his 

compiled 



Mastodon, 



The Ii 



Mike Daiga, who was a middle hitter 
by trade. 

The two did a solid job, but coach 
Amie Ball was looking for more. He 
was looking to re-establish tradition. 

Enter Colin Lundeen. 
Lloy Ball, Hum in Victoria, British Columbia, 

the Canadian has been a volleyball 
player since seventh grade and came 
to IPFW as a transfer player, but one 
very eager to make an impact. 

"1 wanted to go somewhere where 
1 was going to play and I could take 



Photo by Eugene Harding 

THE SET: Colin Lundeen sets up Serdar 
Sikca against Lewis. 



But last year, the tradition hit a 
bump in the road. After Santiago 
-nrprisiiigh exited afier his junior 
season to play professionally in his 
native Puerto Rico, the Mastodons 
were left without a setter. The job was 
given to Mike Randolph, who had run 
a gambit of positions at IPFW, and 



But his story begins a little further 
back than that. 

A setter and middle blocker for 
Clarernont Secondary School, Lundeen 



■ LUNDEEN: Page A8 



Golfers 
take third 
place at 
Invite 

Sports Wrap 



The IPFW women's golf 
team took home a third place 
finish at the UC/UD Women's 
Collegiate Invitational on April 



Mastodons 
shot a 686 in the two round 
event that seven other teams 
participated in. Butler (639) 
and Cincinnati (653) took first 

IPFW sophomore Nicpllg 
Geyer shot a 161 and earrled 
fourth place honors. Freshman 



freshman Alison Rathsman tied 
for 19th with a 175. 

Butler's Lynnsey Showers 
took top player honors with a 
1 54. Hillery Wilson of Cincinnati 
was second with a 1 55 and Niki 
Garden of Butler shot a 158 for 



and Cincinnati second with i 



Classic on April 17 and 18. An 
April 10 and 11 event at Loyola 
was not completed as of The 



point in doubles a 

Crusaders rallied for four wins 

in six singles matches. 

Hanna Hager and Lisa 



Miller won three doubles 8-6 
for IPFW. 

Ashley Coulson and Miller 
won their singles matches. 
Coulson was victorious in 
straight sets and Miller held off 
Charmaine Stanislaw 6-3, 3-6 



Men outmatched against 
Toledo 

Conference play has been 
rough for the IPFW men's 
tennis team this season. The 
Mastodons have lost all three of 
their matches to Mid-American 
Conference competition. 



Toledo Rockets on April 9. 

Hermann Kuschke took 
Toledo's )osh Moran to a tie 



► WRAP: Page A8 



