THE 



Thursday. March 1, 2001 



Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne 



Communicator 

at 



Columnist questions 
technology malfunctions 
on campus / page 2 



Soulfly, Pantera thrash 
Coliseum / page 4 



Drag show controversy 



Group objects to security requirement 



rcily nrricials 
and police required tuo tccurily guudi to be 
prweni m ihc Mi» Cay IPFW drag show on 
Sundny.-Fcb. 18. 

IPPW also required Ihal United Seiualitiu, 
ihc gruup that tponuifcd and ran ihe drag show. 
pay Tor Ihe tecuriiy guards. 

[n Ihc days leading up to ihe drug show. JelT 
Sterling, CEO for US. brought a complainl 
agoinsl IPFW'ii course a( action to the campus 
appcalt boanJ, 

Sterling argued Ihat IPFW's security guard 
requirement at Ihe dra^ thow was a "vialatiun of 
United Sciualiiies' right* under ihe IPFW Code 
orSludem Rights and Responsibilities." 

?lc added that "the university is holding US 
10 dllTeient slandatds ihan other orguniialioni for 
delerminalion of when security is required." 

At press time. Sterling and US members 
were refusing to pay for Ihe Buardi. 

il'RVs cuncri campus security guard poli- 



1 ".iny cvc 



lality or topit" und 



"whenever il is determined to be advisable by the 
University Police due to the nature of the event." 
Univeniiy Police Chief Lauren Denhanog 
said thai "Ihc number of hate crimes across the 
United Slates has been increming each year. Over 
four fifths of Ihc pcrpelrators of anti-gay. leshian. 
bisciual and tnnsgcnder incidenis were male and 
tuQ thirds were under the age of 30. When 
checking into what can be done to combat hate 
crimes, the solution suggested in many cases was 
'gel law enforcement involved.' 

"Wc have a very safe campus anil we would 
like to keep it thai way. We want to be proactive 
instead of reactive. We want to prevent a problem 
before il happens, not shut ihe iloor after it is too 

"With all of this in mind. I recommended thai 
we require police officers lo be al Ihe Miss Gay 
IPFW event. I spoke with sevcml of Ihe vice 
chancellors and they agreed with me." said 
Den ha nog- 
Sterling argues that "Ihcrc was no need (or 
security. The situation on campus is not danger- 
ous in any way that is above the normal risk for 
everyone else on campus." 

Although he agreed lhal "hate crimes 
againsi gays are on the rise in this suic." Sterling 
contends that "they're also on the rise for religion 
groups and Ihe groups 






ivopolic. 



Sterling believes ihit it is nol IPFW's "place 
to judge what's controversial. PFW docs noi 
have the right to go in and judge whal'i contro- 
versial, whai's acceptable, whal's normal, what's 

Currently. US is still waiting for a decision 
from Wall Branson, vice chancellor of Financial 
Affairs, uho must decide whether to eiempt the 
group from paying the security guard fee or to 
require Ihem to pay it, in which case Ihc appeal 
will be revieu-ed by Ihe campus appeals board. 

US has also signed a retainer with the 
Indiana Civil Liberties Union. Indiana Civil 
Libenics. Sterling said, "will look into Ihe situa- 
tion and assess whether there are some potential 
violations of our rights." 

Al Ihe Tirsi iwo drag shows five years ago. 
US asked for sccuniy guards. In the following 
shows, Slciting said security guards were nol 
present until the Feb. IS show. 

"At the lirsl iivo shows, we thought that i,l 
was in our besl interest to have security guards," 
he said, "Since ihen. we've determined that it is 
not necessary. Wc haven't had any problems, I 
actually thought thai we might have had a prob- 
|cni at the Hrsl show. At that lime there had never 
been a drag show on campus. There had been a lot 
of vandalism toour posters and there were a lot of 




Pholo by Daddy Jong, Phola Editor. 
Miss Gay IPFW 2001, Tandy Ross, kneel- 
ing, gels crowned as padicipanls Lallna 
Garrelt. lefl, and Jamie Rex look on. 



le gay group was 



eally in shock that th 
in campus because &gt;l 

Al Ihc show. Sterling said, there were no 
ccuriiy problems. Me said he was pleased with 



Nursing department educates community on women's issues 



oytjioriaaei-aria motherhood, and economic dcvelopmen 

Chief Reporter women. 

According to Sarah Bcckman. ass( 
professor of nursing, this was an impi 
Recently, the IPFW nursing department apponunily for raising awareness and educa 
„• .. u._L .,i_ . .. "The message wc are trying to accoir 

■ring this workshop is not only a 
g about the issuei and details aboul 
: seme or the countries, bulial 
currently in. have been entered or 
ing discussed by our selected offii 



oiganiicd a scries of events which allowed ihi 
community to get a glimpse of contemporary 
luuei concerning women all over the world, 
'- On Mor»dfly. Feb Ifi. approximately lii 
doun people met fiom 7 p.m. 1q 9 p.m. in the 
Wnib Ballroom for an open foram. Issues dis- 
cussed ranged from child labor, price o( medicini 



reness rais- the v 



From February ;5-27. local and Washington 
D.C. leaders met with community members. 
Participants included members of Women's Edge 
and Ponncrs of the Americas, which combine the 
efforts of individuals and organizations in order 
to help women and families globally, and Ihe 
' in Nursci Association, which deals which 



It of 111 



iically c( 






01 pool I 



li.So.a 



going 01 



going 01 



what condilii 



« shortage, early 



ming n 



feel the problems that ore really 
around the world," Hargcs said. 
II IS lime for us to take action, we Hill have 
Ihe ability to make things change. You arc experts 
because you know how your lives are." said Belh 
Myers of the Women's Edge, 






sold to people i 






ihHlVin 









Graham, a 

1 special need for at (219) -ISl-tilTS. Sanna Hargcs 
5T&gt;7 or through the following en 



II people Many people 



Honors Program gets home in Kettler Hall 



Thursday. March I. the Honors Program 
"ill open the Honors Center, located in Kcltlcr 
I lall Riwm G3S, The room is completely remod- 
eled to accommodate Honors Program siudenls 
and fncully, wilh specific univcrsily designation 
as a student- faculty meeling room and study 
lounge. 

According toMnlihew Kubik. associate pro- 
fcisiw of Archilectuml Engineering Technology 
and Honnis Program Director, he and members of 
Ihe Honors f^gram Council undenook Ihc chal- 
lenge of providing an area that was bolh func- 
tional and comfonable. 

According to its literature, the Honors 
Program provides many opponunilies for siu- 
denls who actively show interest in learning 
through participation, problem solving and uork- 
ing closely with teachers 

'Hie goal of the Honors Program is to help 



develop a community of scholars, but al: 

vide opportunities for friendship and rr 

and developing a life beyond ihe classroom. The lural 

Honors Center is very important in helping us ehoo 

develop an honors community." Kubik said, for tl 

The space was allocated by IPFW adminis- Kubi 
tralion during Ihe renovation of Kettler Hall, The out o 
room is located in G3S of Kctller, to hi 

Kubik said renovation began in Otiobcr. and r 
when Ihe Honors Program was granted physical 
possession of Ihe space. The layout and interior ly-fo 
design of the new facility follows rules and regu- carcfi 
lalions of Purdue University regarding the use of 
materials, colors and purchasing procedures, 
according to functions of the room. The Honors 
Program developed a renovation budget to sup- 
port expenses undertaken during Ihe project, 

A joint effort between designers, the 
IHirchasing Department and the Campus Director 
of Special Projects Gregory Justice was invoked 
to meet the s pec i flea lions. 

Most of Ihc furniture in the room was in 
warehouse storage and is now being reused for 



The courses Kubik has led ii 
other regions ofltaly. combined with 
nces. led him to 




lounge sitting area that cjn 
acconimixlalc up to six pci 
pie. Iwu sludy tables thai cm 
.nccommodate an additional 
silt to eight people and two 
computer workstations large 
enough for group activities 

The IPFW Honors o^ , .. ri --, , 

Pr&lt;.gram is twenty years old ^ ^''°'° *&gt;■ °'"""' -^""S- ''"°'° "" 
and ha,s grown steadily over Honors Program stucfenTs relax in 
Ihc years, Kubik mentioned "lo program's new oflice. 



dedicated space for the program was 
sign of Ihe program's maturation, 
and also an important sign of 
the administration's dedica- 



According to Melissa 
King, peer adviser for the 

made up of honors sludcnts 
helped decide what was 
wanted in this space, how 
ihc space was lo be ujcd and 
I.- in which il should be 
. i.iied. King, who is a 
I Ilj.iic of the Interior 
&lt; '&lt; ii:n Program had an 
.i^iwc lole in the selection of 
Liiliiis, materials and layout 

'It is a unique envi- 
nmeni on campus where 
idenu can meet, commu- 
:ate and socialise wilh one 
olhcr.* King said. 



New course to immerse students in Eastern culture 



Michael Spath, assislani professor of ihcol- 
■ igy ,11 the University of Saint Francis, will be 
bringing &gt;ome of his knowledge and eipenise to 
IPFW students in the form of a course called 
Religions of Ihe East. According lo Spaih. this 
course has nol been offered at IPRV in approxi- 
mately 14 years and he is excited la bring it back. 

Religions of the East, which Spaih will 
teach this fall, will concenlralc on Ihe many com- 
plexities of Hinduism. Buddhism. Confucianism 
and Taoism. Il will also touch on Shintoism. 
Jainism. Sikh ism and The Daha'i. 

Spath offered lo Icach al IPFW because he 
knew the university wis in need of a theologian. 
especially one who was familioi with eastern reli- 
gion. 

Spath. who has been teaching world religion 
cDUncs for eighi years, received a Ri.D. in his' 
lorical theology with a specialization in eompom- 
live religion from Saint Louis Univeraiiy and a 
Doctor of Ministry degree in New Testament 
Studies from Eden Theological Seminary. 

According lo Spaih. Ihe aspect lhal has mosi 
qualified him to teach this course is the time he 
spent with Swami Cheianananda and Roiam 
Yoshida. Zen Master in St. Louis 

"They both have had a uemendous impaci 



in my life." said Spath. Spath addi: 


wilh Ihe two men r 


Jlly sparked 








personal studies and 




will help him the mo. 


I in leaching 



immersing myself in those traditions," he said. 

In St. Loui^, Spath worked with other reli- 
gious leaders to form Ihc St. Louis World 
Religions Dialogue. This brought members of 
many different religions together to la Ik about 
difTerenl world issues. Through ihe dialogue, the 
group put on an Inter-Faith Service of Prayer for 
Peace, where members of several religions gath- 
ered togclher lo pray for peace. According to 
Spadi. "It was beautiful because each religion gol 
to express themselves in their own medium and 
their own svay." Spaih was the master of cere- 
monies for the evening and the featured guest was 
Ihe Dalai Lama. 'It was amaxing lo be in his pres- 
ence. He is a living manifestation of the divine." 
Since receiving his degrees. Spath applied 
for a Fulhright Scholarship and in turn received a 
position. During the 199S-I999 a'cademic year. 
Spaih was a Fulbnght and NSEP Scholar ai the 
Royal Iniuiute for Inter-Faith Studies m Amman, 
lurdan. He was a researcher and speech writer for 
Prince El Hai.san bin Talal of die Hashcmiie royal 
family. King Hussein's brother, 

Spath wanted lo emphasize lhal he is not 
here lo leach a spirituality class, but rather a clais 



"In Islam, the line bciween culture, polii 
and religion is not a sharp line like il is here in Ihe 
West." said Spath. 

Spath plans to design the course around Ihe 
ati. culture and the tradition of the Easi. rather 
than jusi religion "because they are all inter- 
twined." Spath said thai in order to really leam 
about the Easi. one has to lake into consideration 
Ihe political systems, economic systems and 
social slniclure. as well as Ihe theology. 

When leaching. Spath said he approaches 
these religious traditions with great respect He 
idemifics himself as a "spiritual humanist." "I try 
to help my siudenls discover what is good and 
true and beautiful from my perspective in each 
one of these traditions." Spath 's goal is not to 
minister to. but rather to "humanize" his students 
He says if siudenls arc willing to put forth the 
effort, this course can be life-changing. 

Spath emphasized how interesting this 
course will be for students. He loves to work with 
an and culture and he especially enjoys telling 
slurict. Spaih said dial students will not just leam 
the dry docirrne of eastern religions, bul nthci 

ise the siudenls a real inlereuing experience." 

Yoga and Zen medilation. An evening wilt be 
dedicated lo each of Ihese subjects. Spath 
believes that one of his fovorile subjects lo talk 
about, the Goddess of India, is one ihat 



Wcilcr. 



'n from, "1 will iry In make the 
tradiiion come alive." he said. 

In May 2002, Spath will conduct a Middle 
East study tour, which will include Israel. Jordan 
and Egypt. 

Spath believes that his numerous past trips 
to these countries will make the upcoming lour 
very uonhwhile and well -received. 

In May 2(X)3 he is planning a study tour to 
India and Tibet TTie following year he plans to 
travel to Ihe Oncni. Each of these irips will be 
available lo any IPFW student who may be inter- 
ested, "Arab hospitality is amazing." said Spadi, 

PHIL 330 Religions of the East will be 
offered in the fall on \fonday nights from b-SAS 
p m in Kctller G21 There are no pierequisiles 
for Ihe course, although sophomore standing is 
preferred. 

Clark Butler, philosophy department pTOfcs- 
sor and chair, is currently taking measures lo gel 
this course on the list for the Area IV Humanistic 
Thought requirements for arts and science majors 
al IPf^. Tlie philosophy depanmeni is also try- 
ing to create a trend of castcm religion courses. If 
approved, there will be an upcnming course 
focused mainly on Islamic topics in the spring of 
2002, 

The majority of Spath's work has been 
done on Islam. He hopes that die Islamic course 
willbelaughi in diespnngor2002 



Opinions 



On-campus computer woes slow down students' productivity 



Havinf i nther \it%c compuicr 
prosiunmrng plnjecl due lul Tuadiy. 
jnd being a long «jy from anywhere 
cttue In having il in any condilion thic 
could be comideiul icccpiable. I hid 
no choice bur m make a special (np l&gt;i 
Walb on ihe Mondiy nighl pi loi lu [he 
due dale 

Tailing idvanugc of the new and 
wondaful upnded hours in Wilb, I 
knew I hid unlil 2 a.m. lo work on my 
ptoject. Uiing ihe amounl of lime I 
hud and my Impcccableikilliasacom- 
puler programmer, i knew I would 
h»ve preniy of lime lo gel il done. 

My lleek family car gol me lo 
cunpui. and wis able la tun a tiiile 
after 7 pm, 10 I had a good seven 
hnurt lo work on my pnjeci Whai 
unfolded the rail of ihc nighi wis inrer- 
etling. enreruining and frustrating. 

As I walked up Ihe suin m Walb. 
I began ID plot where I would sit in the 
room. Too far to the left, and you get s 
big screen, but ll'i really dart Too far 
to the right, and you'ra surrounded by 
I ntemel- gamers. I 



I had a couple houn of effeciivc 
and prodiKUve programming, and my 
project was coming along very nicely 
■pie Internet- gamers »e&lt;en*l being too 
loud, and I was able lo cffccuvely con- 
centiaie with the help of my faiihful 
1 Dr. Pepper by my side to 



companii 

That high ptodi 
ciency only lasted unt 

The lab consultants promptly 
greelcd about two-lhirds of all people 
coming in Ihe lab with something like. 
'Eicuse me. Sir. we are having a prob- 
lem with the rouleri and we aren't able 
to lag in righi now," 

This followed with a lot of 'Awu. 
man," and. "How am I supposed lo do 
my homeu-ork?" 

The majority of the other third of 
the people that were not greeted 



ire juiomaucally paged. 
&gt;u(i a day. every day They 

Tlie two houri wu 
good eiiimaie. as the sysiem was 

after Ihe problem fint began. 

Kostrubantc slated. 'In Ihis 
instance, our lead network engi- 
neer had the server back up in 25 
■ninolci * Given il took iwu 
hours to fu the problem, this 
uanslaies into a travel lime 
allowance of nearly I hour and 
30 minutes. Perhaps we would 
I less annoyed with the 



I if our 









door sal dowr 



dt. b 









s well 11 



:l far 



enough away flam the Internet -gamers 
so thai they wouldn't intctrupl me loo 
much with their canslsni talking. 
Unfonunaiely, the computer lab in 
Walb teems lo be about 200 feci loo 
shon and SOO computer teiminals loo 
few IQ be large enough lo provide any 
seal Ihat would be free from this con- 
tlanl challer. laughing and competitive 
bickering. 

And so my nighl began by lag- 
ging into Ihe system usmg my universi- 
ty-assigned sludcnl uKmame and my 
supci'tccict password, I opened up my 
ptogramming language and itarlcd 
working away at my project, wriline 
code lo effcclively multiply two inle- 



fora. 



would ni 



rcpiescnt. 



kind atHi thoughtful gcnileman I am. 
took it upon myself to lei everyone 
know what was going on. After all. 
you'd never know when one of those 
ladies might lake fondly lo me and 
we'd be hooking up. 

The lab consultants on duly stood 
up and made an announccmeni lhat a 
iDUlei had gone down, and affcclcd not 
only Walb. but also Helmkc Library 
and Neff Hall. This forced sludcnu 
wishing to do homework lo take a trek 
lo either Kettler or the Science 

Information Technology Services 
director Bob Koslrubanic said the 
problem was not a faully router, as 
reported by the lab consultants. The 
Kiver supporting Ihe Walb lab hung 
up, continuing Id suppoti what wa.s 
already logged in. but not accepting 
new lequcsts When Ihis happens, nur 



campus during off-hours, in 
which case a speedboat would be 

During the two-hour lime 
period where very little work could be 
done. I was reminded of Little House 
on the Prairie, as the Interne t-gamcrs 
didn't know what to do with the new- 
found lime. One of the gamers was 
ihoughlful enough la bring along a gui- 
tar, so he was nice enough lo sil jusi 
outside the door playing wanna-be 
Dave Mailhews Band songs. 




Iw 



guiia 



a lillle en 
s abilili 



ing to someone like myself trying lo 
use the lab 'in connection with legiti- 
mate, university-related purposes." 

I suppose I cannot complain, 
since Internet gaming is a legitimate 
partof one': 



fined al about II p.m . at 
every computer in Walb 
II use (which was all but 
10) hid its hard drive cleaned 
and rawritien. This was probably Ihe 
most annoying point of the night, as 
shortly after Ihis. something caused Ihe 
system to slow down greaily. [i was 
slower than molasses. 

I wasn't quite sure what caused 
the slowdown. It could have been ihe 
fact thai other labs close ai 1 1 p m. ihii 
forced Ihe slowdown, or il could have 
been an overloading of the syslcm due 
to the consecutive hard drive rew-riling 
of about 30 computers. 

Koslrubanic agreed ihit the slaw-- 



the hall beluc 
But one thing 1 da knuw. after Ihe 

the speed il wa.5apetaiing al before the 

aclujlly led ti&lt; my packing up and 
heading home btighlly after midnighl. 
I jusi could not work on a computer 
where 1 &gt;pent mure time wailing for il 
in ptocc&lt;,&gt;i than I did writing code. 

But hey. al Ica.sl the Inlemet- 
gamcrs had a high-speed Intemet con- 
nection where they could play their 



smcc the games provide much practice - simullane- 

in hand-eye coordioa ion. Apparent y , t. r l , u 

a .Is. hdps kon. cnm^unicllin .k,ll, °". '.=''"'""1 '' *' ""'Pl"™j "" 
by promoting interaction in an olhcr- 



Excellent Educators Series: 

Dipak Chowdhury, Geosciences 



heatuicd this wt 
Excellent Educators 5i 

Dipak Chowdhury ofCi 
Chowdhury teaches 



Sicllar 



Eaithquakcs and labs. The study of 
earthquakes is his specially, and 
the area he loves lo teach most. 

He earned his doctoral degree 
from TeiBs A ft M University 
, before coming lo IPFW. "I was 
looking for a position, and enjoyed 
working al a university," 
Chowdhury said. 

In I99S. he won the IPFW 
Friends of the University 
Oulslanding Teaching Award. As 
an insirucior. Chowdhury is both 
Ihe sludcnu' friend and challenger. 



Iruclion supercedes cupecta- 
Specincilly. Chowdhury's 



sU'cnglhs ate in delinesiing the elu- 
sivencss and mysticism of abstract 
scienlific concepts and principles: 
He makes Ihe difticull. less so, 

Wilhout sacrificing Ihc 
integrity and camplelcness of the 
body of modern-day scientific 
knowledge, Chowdhury's detailed 
explanations and analogies to Ihc 
familiar make the subjccui he's 
teaching far more appiuachable. 
Moreover, his lectures comple- 
ment and reinfoice concepts found 
within assigned teits. 

Chowdhury takes as much 

denis' questions. "When students 
begin to understand abslraci ideas, 
and I see that glitter in iheir eyes, 
no riches can compare lo that 
understand ing. Thai's the most 
important thing." Chowdhury said. 
He has acquired quite a nice col- 
lection of globes and physical 
models, which are efficiently used 
\D clarify difficult points. 



Under challenge liom heck- 
lers. Chowdhury is cool. He has a 
knack for quickly diffusing sopho- 
muric dissent, yet is respectful of 



and fluid a fashion, is a liuable 

credit lo his abilities as a professor. 

The benefit nf signing up for 

classes taught by Chowdhury. for 

bally conlcituali7.es ihe finer, more 

in Ihc larger framework of science 
itself. Students wha have a firm 
grasp an Ihc subject benefit from 
Chowdhury's citcnsive and 
diverse pool of knowledge and 



bom again, il would be as 
vcrsily teacher." he said. 

The professor admires ■ 
his own teachers from India. Dr. 
Roy. "He had the mosi brilliani 

lent professor and has been m 
mentor," Chowdhury said. 

He studied under Dr. Roy fc 
several years, while working 

Bachelor's and Master' 



degree 



eally i 



c Thes&lt; 



fnceti 



bined work out lo render his Icc- 



bccause of his mind, ond he was a 

thought if I could be half as good 
as him. I'd be a very good 
leacher" 

From a student's perspective, 
many academicians ore excellent 
researchers; others are excellent 
educators, Chowdhury is an educa- 
tor who is equally accomplished in 
both arenas. For students, this uni- 
veisily and the larger sci 
community. Chowdhury is 




Photo by Deddy Jong, Photo Edilo 
Dr, Dipak Chowdhurv of Geosciences 



Editor's note: Anicta includtd in llie from sludciHi tiie encouraged and wel- pose of ibis series is lo liighliglil and n.'holly on professors being feaiund. 
Excelttiil Educolori Striti "lay or may come, with ilie undemanding lltoi any recognize feacbers who make signifi- An additional reason for anonyiiiily of 
wriiien by members of and all conlribiiiians lo ihli column cam differences in ihe lives of iheirs .... 



ri iiniin)Tnoiij(&gt;'. Tlie pur- denli. As such, ihe articles will foci 



id Ihe Koelieri they iaIlluiOI@holmel.ipfiv.edu. Tliankyott 



Consider This. 



IS ta which luiy of these quotes 
: the souices of these quotes 



challcng 
tor. I 
salihdOl 



ise respond tc 
: these quotes v 



sound off, support or 

1 submissions to the edi- 

and rtply lo: 



Americans, that, in most of the Southen 
lutes, laws were passed forbidding the irarfic: dul 
IS 10 say. rendering Ihe open, notorious trade in 
human beings illegal. These laws were made in 
perfectly good faith, but. like the laws of other 
countnes prohibiting the cipon nf ipccie. or the 
impon nf iilk.i, Ihcy were ■.i&gt;&gt;n e-.iJcd. ,ini) hj\- 



abandoned altagether. leaving Ihe trade as free as riencc of false World War I atrocity ilorics, uid 

clibcrale that between the coast of Africa and ihe Bnuils." Traces of nnu-Semilism." -from "Remembering 

cvolnng lu the -from 'Travels in North Amcnca in IE2T and to Forget: Holocaust Memory Through Ihe 



." by Captain Basil Hall of Ihe British Navy. Camera's Eye" (p. SI), by Bail 



livalcnce toward pelly harassmcnis, Ihe torture of not being 
believed. I am jfraid of being driven mad "-from 
to disbelieve, Ihc As We Are Now, (p. 7 1) by May Sarton, 1973 



Letter to the edil 
Horticulturist responds to student complaint 




I am wriiing in response to a letter wnilen 
by Jennifer Cdinglon regarding the remoral of 
undersioiy plant material m several locations on 
campus, in particular, the ana behind Visual Arts 
along Ihe river bank known is die Quiet SpoL We 
are beginning a project to restoc the understory 
of the wooded ueos on campus lo Iheir nauve 
stale. The project will be completed in sections, 
over a three- id four-jear period, so that cover for 
wildlife will be available as the areas are restored. 



irvcyed and unusual and 



material was amur honeysuckle Unfortunately, ing and calming enviionmem. 
Ihe only environmentally safe and effecuve way 

to remove Ihis plant is lo dig ii oul {it will not be Tlie SCAN Children^ Garden is not con- 
removed from areas where it is stabilizing the nected with Ihis project and will not be cipanded 
steepbanksof the cteek and nver banks). Native beyond its cunent locaiion behind Vuual Arts 
ir honeysuckle. This plant seeds species such as blackhaw. elderberry, choke cher- near Ihe substaiion. 
' ■ ■ ry. spicebush. Joe Pie weed, cranberry viburnum, 

and staghom sumac will be planted in Ihe restored Rich Weber 

appealing to wildlife and visiiors seeking a relax- Grounds Depanmcnl 



Editorial Board I Contact Us! 



Editorial Policy 



llcldl SaUba, Afcuuinnj £rf.(pi- 
Adam Taylor. Feaiuies Mdilor 
NbUud Dirid. Spam Editor 
Gloria At Farti, Chief Ktponei 
Eric l^rr, Ediional Canoonisi 
Deddy Jong, Pholo Editor 
KBlh&gt; Delagrsngc, Cop&gt; EJilO: 
Dorir Reynolds. Publisher 



Mail: Tlie Communicaior. Suite 215, Walb 
Sludent Union. 2101 E Coliseum Blvd . Fort 
Wayne. IN 46805 

E'nunt: slupapci@holmes.ipfw.edu 
Teltphoni.- 

Editor:4SI-6SS4 
Publisher -181-6585 
Advenising; 481-6583 
Fax: 481-6CM5 



Unsigned editorials are ihe opinions of The 
Communicator, They do not necessarily refleei the views 
of IPFW, lis employees or its student body. A column is 
solely the opinion of its author. 

The Communicator welcomes responses from its 
rcatters- Leners to Ihe Editor and gucsl columns must be 
signed, dated and iccompanied by a current, valid address 

All submissions nude via e-nuil must te venfied by 
pbooe or in person. Submissions via mail or e-mail wilh- 
out diis infoimalion will nor be published, eicepi under 



Uaardinary circumstances. Class 
■.i and phon 



e published. 
The edilo 



numbers will m 



be typewntien. 

rf of The Communicator reserves 

iissions for length, grammar, style 

deemed libelous by The 

lal board will nut be published 



March I. 2001 



Opinions 



Tarr+ooriJ 



by Erie Tan. 
Editorial Cartoonist 




Verizon Ullreless 



Introducing Mobile Messenger 

Nou you can chat ulthout talking. 



Loud concert? No problen. Quiet libraries' fl cinch. 
Noy you can send and receive text MlGSSol^SS ri^ht from your uireless 

priU ne Ulthout (osint; your voice or disturbing a soul. You can exchange 
messages one on one, or to a group of friends— whether they're 
across the room or across the country. So nou nothing 
can keep you from staying CODnGCLcQ. 



Simple. Affordable. National. 




- COMMUNICATIONS STORES — 



- AUTHORIZED RETAILERS — 



i;^ 



1^ RadioShack. 



Features 



Pantera and Soulfly thrash the CoMseum 



Hey Iherc ill you college kidi/youlh 
demographics out Ihael I hive rctumed froni 
a joumcy of loul jcuching. en lighten mem. 
coruciousncsi cipandmg ind liarucendenul 
bliM ID wrile anoUiec critique of ihe 
iniullment nf "devil muiie" (o visit our fair 
city for you. (Oluy, I wu Jiul loo damn busy 
10 go to many concern lately and vent my 
opinioni about ihem to whoever picki up j 
copy at the ppei in read while a piofes^'H 
dronet on about Tiled coils or ralJapur 
lubet.) 

Whatever Ihe reason for my abionce. I 
am here to relay the cventi that tionipircd at 
ihc Pantera thaw this put Monday nighl at 
the CoMieum. 

I got there just after Ihe (irst warrn-up 
«ct. Morbid Angel, had left the stage. I don'l 
remember hearing much of them during my 
headbanging days, but ihe name alone gives 
me a good idea Ihal Ibey dnn't have a llule in 
the hand. Upon eniering ihc luena. I did my 
usual roulinc of sliolling up id the fmnt. 
nashing my photo pass at any security guard 
who scowled and staned towards me and 
look my place behind Ibe wall ol blue shins 
and walkic talkies. During my wait. 1 was lis- 
tening Id the music playing over Ihe P.A tnd 
watching the haie build up around Ihe no '" 
smoking signs when 1 heard something that made 
my idealistic inner-hippie recoil in horror. A com- 
mercial. Now, cnlicmg young, tattooed metal- 
heads 10 eat al Friday's or gel cell phones is one 
thing, but this was taking il a step beyond. "Hey. 
this is "•••• from Anihron here, tellin' you to 
check out these new bands, available al Comclot 

..." and then four crunching songs played. 




PhoiD by Jason Savags 
Paniera (ronlman Phil Anselmo gives the crowd 
what they cams lor. 



jperession. A Ian i 

Alter a couple 
(if fights were disrupt- 
ed during intermission, it was time For the head- 
liners. Pantera. to appear. Lights went down, fisu 
weni up, lighters came on. The band blasted into 
fourth gear righl oul of the gate, assaulting Ihe 
crowd with hialing nffs and thunderous drums. 
Phil Anselmo leaped and convulsed around the 
stage, raging out Ihe lyrics to songs like 
1 Is My Name." "Becoming," "This 



Love 



I "Wall 



cade had s 



n Ihe 









with ihe salesman ui 
and alier Ihe tr: 



That being viid. on with Ihc actual conccn 
review. 1 shulTled to Ihe front when Soulfly took 
die stage and began churning oul "Back to Ihe 
Primitine" from their newest album, aplly titled 
"Primilive." The heavy, bass-driven chunk of Ihe 
hand slapped the tiDwd like a giant palm to a mis- 
ing each one before behaving cat. Mai Cavalcra's gruff, scratching 
o one forgol what vocals drilled m the chonij with a wonhy amount 
day llhoughllhe ofaulhoniy The ^nngs arc all heavy enough and 



I band that does not lake what it 
doc,( for gianlcd. They have gone dirough the 
many changing faces of heavy rock and have 
remained true lo what they do, which is make Ihe 
kind of music ihey know iheir fans like to hear. 
Unlike Spinal Tap, there won't be any free-fonn 
joEi ciplotations ai a Panleia show. The fans get 
what dicy eamc for. The show Monday night was 
what the band is all jbout; unbridled fenoi and 



roughneck emotion. Anybody who went lo the 
show pissed off had lo have come oul feeling a 
hundred pounds lighier. with Iheir anger moshed 
oul of Ihem before the third song 

Some critics say thai Paniera is jusi a big. 
uncoulh brand of "mullet rock" and are amajed 
dial they are slill around, even when iheir style of 
metal has gone out of vogue and is nol eiactly 
burning up the charts, i can sum up why these 
guys continue to be die baneof music snobs" eii s- 
tenccinone word: loyally. Even if the fisl-to-lhe- 
face music of Ihis Tcias band is nol for everyone. 
these are four guys who 
■ i/ii siraight 






s. The si 
t. No cos 




Dimebag Darryll gals caught up In ihe 



FITNESS and RECREATION STAFF 

The VMCA of Greater Fon Wayne is looking for a fiincss oncnlcd mdivjdual 
who could perform fitness equipment orietjtaiions, monitor gym and [rack 
aciiviiica, pcrfonn ba.sic cleaning on fitness cnuipment. Musi have fitness cdu- 
catioiv'expcricncc, current CPR cenification, excellent people skilLs. able to lift 
60 lbs., and be 18 years of age. This is great experience for individuals pursu- 
ing a career in fitness! Please send resume with references to: 

Central Branch VMCA 
Attn: Heidi Wegener 

l020BarrSl. 
Ft. Wayne, IN 46802 



Get Vour Degree Tuition Free 

100% FREE STATE COliEGE TUITION 

Up 10 S8000," CASHBonus 

Plus 
Montgotnery GI Bill 

Paid Technical Training and Experience 
Attend School Full Time/Work Part-time 
Continue your education at your own pace 
Career Direction and Advancement lMH\."** 

Part-time Employment/Extra S 
Available lo Veterans also 



Much. Much MORE 






In the Hrmy national Guard VOU Cflll! 



Fort Wayne (Nortli) 
t219t 490-2764 
(219» 490-1506 

Fort Wayne (South) 
(219) 459-7771 
(219) 432-7724 



(219) 824-5630 
Angola 
(219) 665-2535 



Huntington 
(219) 356-0518 
Warsaw 
&lt;219) 269^520 



Personal Trainers 



The Central Branch YMCA of Greater Ft. WaynL' is looking for molival- 
ng and energetic personal trainers, Musi be 21 years of age, minimum 1 
year of personal training experience, 2-year degree in fitness /health- 
related field or current enrollment as a junior or higher, personal trainer 
certification by an approved organization, and CPR and 1" Aid certified.. 
Must have excellent human relation skills. Please send resume lo: 
Central Branch YMCA 
Attn: Heidi Wegener 

1020 Ban- Si. 
Ft. Wayne, IN 46802 



IPFW 



^Campus 
X Calendar 



for March 2-1 5, 2001 



Men's volleyball. GC, 7 p.m. 



Penn State University. 
Loyola-Chicago Univeisity. 

Rape Aggression Defense 
(RAD) classes, WU G21 ; noon- 
2:30 p.m.: also March 6, 7, 8. 

and 9. For information, call 
6827. 

French film: Lucie Aubrac (with 
English subtitles), Cinema 
Center, 7 p.m.; for Information, 
call 6632- 

Spring Tour Home Concert: 

Choral Ensembles and 
Symphonic Wind Ensembles, 
First Wayne Street United 
Methodist Church, 7:30 p.m.; for 
information, call 6714. 



Testing Services: for information, 
call 6600, 
8 Careerassessmentgroup 

Interpretation, KTG43, 

5:30 p.m. 
10 Pre- Professional Assessments 

for Beginning Teachers 

(PRAXIS), CM, 7:30 a,m. 

14 Institutional SAT, KT 123, 2 p.m. 

1 5 College-Level Examination 
Program (CLEP),Kn 23, 
8:30 a.m. 



12 Honors Program Lunch Table, 
KT G35, noon; for Information, 
call 6061. 

lU and Purdue alumni ring 
sales, KTlOl, 1-7 p.m.; also 
March 1 3, 1 1 a.m. -4 p.m. For 
information, call 6807. 

13 Delta Sigma Pi massage 
therapy and bake sale, 

KT ground floor. 9 a.m.-6 p.m.; 
for information, call 6609, 

Men's baseball. GC. 

13 Marian College, 1 p.m. 

15 Tri-State University. 3 p.m. 

14 Delta Sigma Pi bake and 
popcorn sale, KT ground floor, 

8 a.m.-6 p.m.; for information, 
call 6609. 

Dinner Series: 'A Hawaiian 
Luau Dinner," Second- 
Generation Family Eatery, 
Huntington, S25 per person; for 
reservations, call R. B. at 
219-359-1495. 



15 



10 Lunch with an IPFW Scientist: 

■Kitchen Chemistry,' Margaret G. 
Kimble, Science Central, 
1 1 -30 a.m,-l p.m.. members. SS; 
nonmembers, SlO. For 
reservations, call 219-424-2400. 



University Religion Forum: 

'Faith and Medicine: Spiritual 
CarefortheSlck,'WUG21. 
noon-l;l5 p.m., light lunch 
available, donations accepted; 
for information, call 6993. 
Honors Program; An Evening 
at the Museum of Art, 6:30- 
8:30 p.m.; for information, call 
6081. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 




LSAYRES 

THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD 



Sports 



Boilermakers, Hoosiers 
ready to meet at Mackey 



Well, hoc V.C go 



There ii no doubl Ihai Ihc 
grcilut thing iboul (his rivalry 
IS [he fiiu I can jiui hear Ihe 
Purdue fans yeiJing at Coach 
" "Bring back the General. 




cnrners ii&gt; if ihit 
were a heavy- 
weighl champ'- i — . 

onshtp fighi Commenn 

In this camel 
are the Purdue fjiihlul [jnd 
judging how thi* scamn is 
guing ihey ore railhfull and m 
Ihii cotncr the Indiana fanalics. 
Who will come out the victor? 
We will see on Saturday. 

Indiana is iraveling to 
Wnl Lafoyetle ihii Saturday to 
Face their most hiicd rival, the 
Doilcrniaker&gt;. Everyone is 
ready. The Indiana fans arc 
ready for the season sweep and 
Putditc Tans are ready for 
reJempiion. 

Nothing is even close to 
die kind of eijiolion thii takes 
on. not North Carolina vs. Duke 



Keady, "Hey Gene. 

.pelled with 1 J 
mslcjJofaG?- 

Yep. this rivalry alwayi 
gets Ihe fans going. It's [ike a 
scene from "West Side Stoiy" 
It's the Jets vs. the Sharks all 

'Hie game itself should be 
entenaining. I know that njrdue 
IS missing their key scoren. but 
this is Indiana vs. Purdue at 
Mackey Arena. For this game, 
the retords mean about as much 
as Shaq's free-lhiow pereenlage 
to Kobe. 

Purdue needs Canon 

Cunningham and Willie Deanc 

the game of their lives. 



cm. How is it diffcrenl? Well, 
no matter what Indiana and 
Purdue's records are. you can 
always guarantee a war. 
Carnlina and Duke always have 
gieal records, so their games arc 
always important to the oui- 

This helps people get 
involved in the games, but even 
when Indiana and Purdue arc at 
■heir worst, the rivalry still 
burns. The winners of this game 
■" ■«; talking about ' '' 



Purdi 






in gel something going 
- and Indiana col- 
the middle, 
and Deane could 
get the open shots that they 
need to knock down. If not. it 
could be a long day for the 



nfthe ) 



For Indiana, they need to 
jnd the interior and make 
e throws. If Ihe Hoosiers 

m the line, that could keep 
■ anything 



Take Purdue for instance. 



could happen at the en 



Purdi 



Me7 Well, 
leing J 



NCAA Tournair 



imcs and again.sl Indiana's big men, I see 
le Ihc NIT a long day at the olTlce for 
Coach Keady and predict a 74- 
59 Indiana viclory, 

or course, my predictions 
arc oflen compared to a Neil 
Diamond CD at 3 fiaterniiy 
party: they both come about on 
the spur of the moment and 



Track program prepares for season 
with limited facilities, resources 



gci my 5 



Having acompeiiove inck program 
m place at IPFW ii a challenge for head 
track coach Rick Nonon who is in charge 
of creating and developing a program thai 
he wants lo have embody both a philoso- 
phy and a precedence. 

'Our goal IS to create an identity for 
the program. It is dillicull with ihe current 
facility situation.' Norton said. 



:iliiy sr 






csting one IPFW has no outdoor track, no 
indoor track and no place for Held event 

The field event players must drive to 
New Haven three nights a week in order 
to practice. The middle-distance and long- 
distance panicipants practice two nights a 
week at Gates Sports Center and three 
nights a week at Concordia Seminary. 

There has been a lot of talk about a 
if facilities. 



Norton said sc 






around eipanding Gales Sporu Center 
He also noted that the program has had 
blucpnnls donated for an indoor training 
facility. Such an indoor training facility, 

been quoted as coiling around S(i million 
Norton views these efforts as a desire lo 
give (he program an actual identity 

Norton also desires to coniinue in 
build the program in regards to numK;r\ 
Currently there are 10 men and fnui 
the track tc 



t 53 



No) having a full team to pracuce with docs 
have Its drawbacks, as Sorg said. "I Ihink it's hard to 
keep people mouvaled because dtey don't see how 
necessary it is lo participate in all the practices or 
stay focused on then goals, so they slack olT a little 
bit . It makes il harder to drive yourself lo 
do better." 

Nidlinger is looking forward to this track sea- 
son for several reasons. Tm looking forward to run- 
ning consiitemly and gelling my goal in the 5K. and 
hopefully everyone else improves, too." Agreeing, 
Sorg said. "I'm looking forward lo self-impiove- 
menL gelling better times for myself, to know that I 
can accomplish something.' 

Assistant track coach Mike Fnichey said, 
~rhings are really taking off and I anticipate gelling 
up to NCAA numbers netl year.' 

Anyoiw with any (rack eipcrience. or wanting 
to get into shape, is urged lo give collegialc track a 
chance. For more information about running track, 
please contact the Athletics OITice at 481-6643. 

As Sorg put il.'Ifanybody has S4 million and 
they would like to namcan athletic center, we've got 
an indoor track for you." 

Division I track at IPRV: eiciting, growing 



Weeks Top 
Performers 

• Rhyen Staley 

34 assists vs 

Ball Slate 
' Arcangel Ruiz 

8 blocks vs- 

Ball State 
" Jamie Hotderman 

double-double. 

22 pts, 1 0rbs vs. 

Wisconsin- 

Parkside; 29 pis in 

40 min vs. Lewis 

• Trish Fleming 

30 pis, over 58 per 
cent from field vs. 
Wisconsin-Parkside 

• Lindsay Wertz 
20 pts vs. 
Wisconsin-Parkstde 



The I 



ncludcs 



Hopkins OS captain for sprints anil It 
events and Jason Sorg and JefT Nidlm 
as captains for middle-distance and In 
distance. 

Sorg is looking forward to the in 
gural track season here al IPRV uiih 
pi omi sing outlook of 'accomplish mt n 
goals and records for myself. I want in 
under 1600 |in Ihe 5000 mcici 
Hopefully I'll get down lo 1S:4D. m.i: 
Jusi personal goals, 1 am aKii (.■• 



lofotus 
down I 



nihe 10,0( 



.32 m 



Sorg h 



lOK personal rccnrJ &lt;&lt;l 
igo, before spending \.is\ 
spring participating in an exchange pro 
gram which took him to the University of 
Connecticut. He has run his personal 
record of 16:06 in the 5K jusi recently 



Women's basketball 
finishes season strong 



ball le. 



iididn 



ifsii games can change Ihc outlook of 
vcvci, for Ihe IPFW women's baskcl- 
chinge anything. They still wanted to 



liincc Iheir disappointing skid in late January, the 
Danii have won eight of their final 10 games of Ihe sea- 
son. During those eight wins, Ihe average margin of vic- 
loiy was over 13 points; the closest of those was 
Saluiday's season finale against Lewis, in which the 
Dons outlasted Lewis S3-7S 

The Dons were powered by senior Jamie 
Holdcrman, who flnuihed her collegiate career al home 
Willi an impiessive 29 points, including 1 3 for 1 3 from 
Ihe line, Tnsh Fleming poured in 23 points in the victo- 
ry and Tecora Dudley grabbed nine rebounds. 

The Dons also took On Ihe University of 
Wisconsin-Parfcside on Thursday, Feb. 22. 

The game was close down to Ihe wire, with IPFW 
nailing by two at the half. 42-40. Al Ihe end of regula- 
tion Ihe score was lied ai 79. 

IPF\V headed inlo their first overtime of (he season 
and ncii able lo subdue Wisconsm-Parkside's hopes, 
containing them with 0-8 shooting during the period. 
The Ooiu connected on four out of seven from the field 
and SIX of eight from Ihe line lo walk away with a suong 
S4-')9 victoiy.The Dons finished the season 19-B and 
look (orwanl lo Uking on quality Division I teams neil 



Men's basketball 
ends season 



things. Of course, when you look at the season as a 
whole, you can see many great things coming from 
this year's men's baskclball leanii. 

Although ihe team did lose more games ihan 
they won. the Dons averaged fewer Ihan five points 
less Ihan their opponents for the season. They hit 
.334 of their three-point attempts, going 226 for 676 

For most of the season, Ihc Dons started two 
freshmen in Lindsay Henderson and Jim Keuemch, 
two sophomores in DeAngclo Woodall and Brad 
Noll and one junior in Nick Wise. Being so young, 
the team ha.s much lo look for^vard to in Ihe coming 

The Dons closed out Ihe 2000-2001 season 
with a pair of disappointing home lasses. Hosting 
Wisconsin-Park side on Thursday. Feb. 22. the Dons 
played uell, but dropped Ihc game 64-S2. The v:a- 
son finale againsi Lewis took place on SalurJav, 
Feb. 24, which the Dons losi 53-95. 




Writers needed to cover 

Student government 

meetings and events. 

■Applicants must not be affiliiited with 

student government, 

* Newswriting experience a plus but not 

necessary. Will train. 

** This is mi excellent starling point for sludeni 

writers, which may lead to a paid position. 




Scoreboard 

Men's Volleyball 

Feb 23 Ball State University L 1-3 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



I United Art and EducationQ^ 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



JOIN OUR WAREHOUSE TEAM 8. WORK IN A FRIENOLV ENVIRONMENT. 

■ Work part-time new/full-time in the summer 

■ Duties include erder fillins (includes seme lisbl lifting up to SOibsl 

■ starting at S7.50 



Contact Mark or Tom: 

(219) 478-1121 Morday-Friilay 



United 

[I Art and Education || 
4413 Dilaii Roi^, Firt Wiyie, IK 



The Communicator 

is looking for a 
NEWS EDITOR. 



This paid position is a 

great way to get involved i 

on campus and learn 

about IPFW. 



Please stop by 
Walb 215 
to apply. 



'"^, 



b 



