INDIANA UNIVERSITY 



PURDUE UNIVERSITY 



FORT WAYNE 



Wednesday 

April 25, 2007 



The Communicator 



Volume 37, Issue 29 




■ Athletic Director 



News Briefs 
4/25-5/01 



+ Guest speaker Eva Kor, 
survivor of Auschwitz and the 
Mengele medical experiments', 
WU Ballroom, 7-8:30 p.m. For 
info, call 481-6992. 
+ ASAP! Year of Achieve- 
ment Celebration. WU Ballroom, 
noon. For info, call 481-6608. 
+ "An Evening at the 19th 
Hole," Deer Track Golf Course, 
Dinner Series, 6:30 p.m. For 
tickets, call 481-6619. 
♦ CollcgcPrcp 10I.WUG08, 
7-9 p.m. For info, call 481-4188. 



♦ "Microsoft Word 2003 Es- 
sentials," 9:30-1 1 :30 a.m.; Pam 
Zepp, instructor. KT 205B. To 
register, call 481-6030. 

♦ "More Fun Than Bowl- 
ing," by Steven Dietz; Williams 
Theatre, 8 p.m. For ticket info, 
call 481-6555. 



+ "Tapestry: A Day for Wom- 
en," Allen County War Memorial 
Coliseum, 8 a.m.^l p.m. Actress 
Patty Duke, keynote speaker. For 
info, call 481-6807. 
+ IPFW Writers Group, KT 
G 19, 2-4 p.m. April's theme is 
"Escape." For info, call 481- 



♦ PRAXIS, CM Lobby, 7:30 

+ 12th Annual 5K Mastodon 
Stomp Walk/Run, GSC, 9 a.m. 
Proceeds benefit the IPFW 
Men's and Women's Cross 
Country program. For info, call 
481-6647 or 481-5748. 
+ Blue Star leadership con- 
ference, location TBA, 9 a.m.-l 
p.m. For info, call 481-4188. 
+ Senior recognition, loca- 
tion TBA. 1 p.m. For info, call 
481-4188. 

+ The BCC Conference, 
WU. $5 admission or freewill 
monetary donation accepted. 
Registration at 8 a.m. Session 
1: "Dream More, Want More 
and Expect More. ..Do More-It 
is your Hi story -where are we 
going as a people?" 
Session 2: "Is it the Police? Arc 
you a complainer?" 
Session 3: "The Educational 
system-The forces that create 
success and failure for minori- 
ties." Open to the public. 
+ Fashion Show/Talent 
Expo, WU Ballroom, 7-10 



+ Campus Visit Day, WU, 1-3 

+ "More Fun Than Bowling," 
by Steven Dielz; Williams The- 
atre, 2 p.m. For ticket info, call 
481-6555. 



+ Last week ot classes 
final exams beg 
through May 6. 



On this day in 1961. Fidel 

no more elections in Cuba. 




E-shoppers beware: 

Tech bullies keep fraud detectors on high alert 



ByZach Hunsinger 



As the Internet continues to grow 
into an ever-present and vital part 
of our lives, it is also impacting the 
business industry. 

E-commerce. or electronic com- 
merce, has steadily grown over the 
last five years. Consumers arc find- 
ing the ease ot use an appealing trait 
Some businesses would not have sur- 
vived without the availability ot sell- 
ing goods online. 

Despite the growth of c -commerce, 
some skeptics express concern about 
giving money to an "invisible store" 
and having to hope that the product 
arrives. Some fears are adequately 
grounded and legitimate. 

Dick Boyd of the IPFW Computer 
Science Department stales that iden- 
tity theft, product fraud and site train] 
are the three bigj2.es! dangers of simp 
ping online. 

Numerous articles describe the 



The Federal Trade Commission 
recommends taking advantage of the 
many sites that have links (o custom- 
er comments and reviews. They cau- 
tion to take a few moments and look 
over what others say, to learn about 
s and failures of the busi- 



ness. The safest forms of payment in- 
One key feature of a store's Web elude credit cards and online pay- 
site is the customer concerns phone meni services. Debit cards, cashier's 
line. Also, be sure to fully read and checks and money orders should only 
understand the Web site's selling and be used if one has immense trust in 



looks into it immediately. Boyd also 
says "the Web site should begin with 
blips instead ol Imp tor it to be u se- 
cure Web site." 

Most large companies who provide 
line shopping have secure websites. 




buying policies. Always review the the Web site's security. 
return policies. To further ensure his safety and se- 
Payment plans should he observed curity, Boyd uses one specific credit 
with extreme caution. The FTC says curd for online purchases. The card 
to never "wire money (via a money is insured lor identity theft and pur- 
transmitter or directly to a seller's chasing fraud. He also encourages 
bank account) unless they know the paying close attention to monthly 
seller personally or can verity the billing statements. 
seller's identity." If anything unexpected appears, he 



The FTC comments that "legitimate 
companies don't ask lor this informa- 
tion via e-mail." Also, do nut click 
on any links, or even copy and paste 
the links. The links may look like 



die I' 



If one feels there is a problem with 
his or her account with an organiza- 
tion, contact the organization "by a 
telephone number you know to be 
genuine. 1 



Communism revisited: 

One assistant professor delves 
into theory, history of regime 



By Louisa Danielson 



IPFW Assistant Professor James 
Toole discussed the importance of 
political parties in post-communist 
Europe. 

His speech was a part of the Rich- 
ard Lugar Faculty Scholars Program. 
which works in conjunction with the 
Richard G. LugarStudeni Scholar for 
International Affairs. 

This program selects an IPFW stu- 
dent to work with Senator Lugar in 
his Indiana and Washington D.C. of- 
fices for the fall semester. The student 
then works as a research assistant for 
the Lugar Faculty Scholar during the 

Toole became interested in Eastern 
European politics when he spent two 
weeks in the region shortly before 
the communist regime cracked. Fol- 
lowing the fall of the Berlin Wall in 
1989, former satellite nations of the 
communist regime began building 
democracies; watching the progress 
of these nations has been "Fascinat- 
ing," said Toole. 

Three nations that Toole focused on 
were Poland, Hungary and the Czech 
Republic. These countries have the 
"bare essentials" ol political panics, 
meaning thai they get candidate- 
Political parties also provide clear 
differences between parties so that 
voters can easily understand plat- 
forms without getting into deep ide- 
ology. 

T his facilitates elections and allows 



more cili/.ens to participate in gov- 
ernment, since they can easily choose 
candidates based on party idcntilica- 

However, political parties in East- 
em Europe have had their drawbacks. 
Lack of participation and little con- 
trol over government policy forma- 
i have rendered po)jiii_al parlies 






i-etleU 



In regard to participation, look- 
said that even though parties have 
made it easier for voters to tell the 
difference between platforms, it has 
been a case of "too much conflict ... 
too Mule consensus." 



mg. 

But perhaps the most important 
difficulty political parties have run 
into is their lack of control over pub- 
lie policy. These countries are new to 
democratic rule- it takes lime to feel 
out the parameters and understand 
how a democracy works. 

But more importantly, lack of in- 
dividual country policy may be at- 
tributed to the European Union. Not 
that Toole hales the European Union 
-"(It's) a remarkable organization." 
he said. But the EU has certain legal 
conformity requirements that must 
he met before a nation can enter the 

For that reason. Hungary. Poland 
and the Czech Republic have fo- 
cused on meeting EU requirements 

instead of catering io i heir individual 
country's needs. Eastern European 
countries have sacrificed personal 
representation for 
provement. 




■_ 

Photo by Elmer D 
IPFW Assistant Professor James Toole. 

Toole concluded that political par- policy change, 

lies in Eastern Europe have only been Because political panics in Eastern 

partially successful in attaining their Europe arc fairly weak and poor, they 

goals - thai they have informed peo- have little patronage and function 

pie of ideology and acted as a means rather to contest elections, 

of communication between the peo- Thus corruption and largess have 

pie and the government. less of an effect on politics. In regard 

But they have not been able to to the pedigree of politicians, Toole 

greatly affect policy or tremendously said that the roots of current Eastern 

increase participation in government. European political parties extend 

In the question and answer session back info history for several ccntu- 

thal followed the speech, members of rfes. 

the audience asked about the "prize" Although ihc Communisl Regime 

of being active in politics, patronage attempted to form "classless socict- 

spending and the pedigree of politi- ies" and squelch political compcti- 

cians in Eastern Europe. tion. the existing groups remained 

Two of the prizes for political action alive. What we see today is a result of 

that Toole mentioned are the gaining "beliefs handed down from parents to 

of power, and the ability to attempt to children." Toole explained, 

make a difference in a nation through Once the Wall fell, the parties re- 

"^ ™" INDEX: 

Podium 3 

Arts &amp; Entertainment 5 



ipsm 



|, ■■ -i : I'.'Jv: M. ■■ ™ V.'.. ■{■ i|-.-:- 

I Inc. Walb Union. Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



Newsroom: 1260)481-6584 

Fav: (260) 481-6045 
Advertising Dept.: (260) 481-6583 

E-mail eoiilacl@ipfwi 



POSITION AVAILABLE - COLLEGE NEWSPAPER PUBLISHER 

Indiana-Purdue Sludent Newspapers Inc. seeks a publisher for The Commu- 
nicator, the weekly newspaper that serves IPFW. Duties include advising the 
student staff, negotiating a printing contract, and overseeing payroll and other 
bookkeeping duties. 

Minimum qualilications: A bachelor's degree in Journalism or related field 
and at least three years' experience in newspapers and/or student publications. 
Knowledge of student press rights and basic accounting principles desired. The 
publisher serves as the chief financial officer of a 501(c)3 non-profit corpora- 



This is a part-time position. Salary is S20.&lt;H)(). I he initial appointment will be 

for the 2007-08 school year. 
Interested candidates should send a cover letter, resume and contact informa- 
tion of at least three references to: Melissa Mcintosh, IPFW, 2101 East Coli- 
seum. Fort Wayne. IN 46805. 



IPSN Inc. 

is currently accepting applications for its 

Board of Directors. 

IPSN Inc. is the governing body of IPFW's student newspaper. 
The Communicator. 

Current positions are open for one student board member. 



Please submit letters of application and resumes to Larry Wardlaw, chair, 
Ad Hoc Nominating Committee. 



All correspondence should be directed to larryw@asheragency.c 



Silent Auction 



\i Nil ill I&lt;j,ij&gt;,', uliirli is mi i Im.iiI .'banter nl* Sifinm 'I 
national (Honor Society of No 
iililTTn iniiji i.in f iii JikiiI l^i i sin jCfalinl nfffHlBTllI anV 

lilen, :im linn Weulwuys linvr lofc liferent items In liiil mi iu,l,,,li» 

■nils limn nira ristiiniiiiiisniiil (loH'rliilis 
Iniiiiemiiile lifelines, quills, movie pusses, s|mh( iiifj events, 
il. ins. Win llruillr} liitfis, I'll', 

This yearly event »ill Ik' held on Ma) '!.' ,,l 

ll'l \\ - Wnll. I iiiim. TiiVtNiiiviinljS'.'"i.lH&gt;ulii.-li ini'liiilisii I. I" 

lullfel dill ■ leillllliliK "loin ..! Hull". We would filwtl; appevriele 

\oiii »ii|i|Kirl In iitleiiilineJllisexemiuiMeiil. IWiwIs from tlii- 

-|«im- ami liiwU ol Siejnu Theti, 'I'll,.. 



Bookinark 

Your Off Campus Book i 



Hours: 

M-TH10-7 
FrMO-6 
Sat 10-5 



Thank you IPFW 

students for your support! 

We greatly appreciate your business. 



3420 N. Anthony Blvd 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 



Phone: 260-484-2665 
Fax: 260-484-2776 




Summer I &amp; II Textbooks Available 



0) 

c 



0) s 



S s, £ s S 



15 i 



CO £ -E S 3 



Podium 

A great night at Piere's 



Pardon the Pun """• 

I danced ;ind danced tanoih- 

By Michelle Yahne cr Mn&amp; , have recently s|arlct! , 

do while out), and had a lot of fun 

making fun of the people who think 

Call me a hypocrite. Just do it they're either way cool or people 

and get it over with. Writing this who should not be in a club at all. It 

piece is admitting that 1 prejudged did make me start to wonder; I would 

something and was wrong about it. probably go out to Piere's more if 



room to work with people. 

Second, if all (he bartenders were 
not girls, then the girl club goers 
would spend just as much, if mil more 
money than the guys, because most of 
[he girl b. irlc infer- don't pay much at- 
i the girl club goers (because 



was something that I would never see 
anywhere else. 

Over this past weekend, I at- 
tended a 21st birthday party. The 
birthday girl = 

decided she 
wanted to go 
to Piere's. I 
was not happy 
about this de- 
cision, but I 

figured I could 

just leave if 

the experience was really that bad. 

So I sucked it up, and drove there. 

Right off the bat, the pros were 
adding up I goi ,i really good parking 
spot, and the front door guys didn't 



floors in the dance and hip hop clubs. 
alone Willi more male bartenders anil 

shot boys. 

First off, if there were laraerdance 









I [,,&gt; h 



■If they flirt with them). II you like 
liial idea, ihcn tine. Give the females 
something 10 look at, too! 1 mean all 



the men that work ai Piere's are secu- 
rity personnel, and lhc&gt; aren't exactly 
(lie chatty type who would persuade 
people to spend more money. Re- 
gardless of the fact that I had a great 
nighl, I know that other |&gt;eoplc have 
honor stories about this place I'ven 
though I would be uncomfortable in 
certain situations, 1 was always with 
n group of people, and that cuts down 
on most of the negative things 1 have 
heard about this bar. 

Even more so, I guess thai my 
experience at tins nightclub has just 



gone to show how much people 
judge things before they try them. 
While I may not be- going to jump 
oni ol a plane oreat some era/y hugs 
or anything, it will slick in my mind 
to try new things outside my com km 
zone. Well, 1 guess you might sec me 
out a little more after this, but trust 
me, you'll never sec my name on 
the front of the Metro section. I can 
promise you that. 



day after Thanksgiving trying 
to find a parking space." 






;paya 



r. Then, 1 (insert else v 



find a clear 
spot to dance because there were so 
many people. 1 fell like I was at the 
mall the day afler Thanksgiving Irv- 
ing to linil a parking space. You have 
snatch that spot up. or someone 



r e) actually had a 






: it right •■ 




Inaction proves 
detrimental 



A Sample of What I 
Think 

By Stephanie Samples 



f\ 



The incident 






cm.. 



control, safety peopb 
on campuses, 
a junior English major criminal pro- 
and writes 'A Sample filing and 
''.' a ' "'" " r IL warning signs 
^ k i\ - jn ru.i nixtsMinK °f criminal 

newspaper. Many people 

are asking. 

Why wasn't this individual slopped.' 
What did we miss? What did we ig- 

Today there is a large concern 
about offending someone. Each day 
we make sure our words are politi- 
cally correct in order to not sound 
racist, sexist or judgmental in any- 
way. Even if we are none of the pre- 
viously mentioned things, a slip of 
the tongue can sometimes result in 
damaging consequences. While I am 
all for equal treatment to all people 
no matter gender ace, race, religion 
or sexual orientation, this fear of say- 
ing the wrong things lias maybe gone 
too far. Are we too polite for our 

As sad as it is to say, many 
ol the heinous t rimes that have been 
committed in recent history arc root- 
ed in the playground. Many indi- 
viduals who turn on their classmates 
and hurt them are people who were 
hurt on the swing sets and no one 
said anything about it. Why did no 
one say anything? What some people 
may not realize is these children need 
help, as do their bullies. The expres- 
sion -children can be cruel" is rooted 
in truth, but what we don't say is 



"people can be cruel." 

1 am by no means saying thai 
the actions of the shooter al Virginia 
Tech are excusable no matter wlial 
happened in his pasi. but I am say- 
ing there is a possibility that it could 
have been prevented. 

People are so afraid to talk 
about [lungs that may not be pleas- 
ant, and although hurting someone 
shouldn't be a goal, it might be nee 
essary. If someone is physically sick 
ami people can see it. they either help, 
or they avoid that person to prevent 
getting sick themselves. What about 
that are internally sick? Do 
that? Do we even know what 
to look for? 

Yes, every person in this world 
will go through something that may 
make them unpleasant to be around, 
but when behavior is very abnormal. 
something should change. It is better 
to say something and n he nothing, 
than to say nothing and have that 
change everything. 



Drivers beware of drivers 

■ What are people doing behind the wheel? 



By Nicki Daly 



I do a lot of driving, which also 
means that 1 gel the privilege ol 
viewing othci people who are driving 
often. 1 don't understand why people 
drive the way that they do. 

I am 22-ycars-old and have yet to 
be in an accident. Sure. I may have- 
backed into a closed garage door 
And okay, maybe I hit my friend's 
car once. But I have never been in 
an accident where ears were mov- 
ing or where any cars were actually 
damaged more than a slight dent. If 
people would pay more attention to 
driving and less attention to whatever 
else they're doing, it would make 
driving so much easier. 

I can't stand it when people 
throw things out of their windows, 
I wouldn't consider my sell a sctious 
environmentalist, but I recycle. I've 
seen people throw iasi food hags otil 



of their windows' And I guarantee 
you the people who do this aren't 
doing it because their car is so in- 
credibly clean that they can't store a 
Wendy's bag in it until they make it 
home. While driving, my windshield 
has even been hit by a beverage. 

And smokers, slop throwing oni 
your cigarette bulls' Ash trays are 
there for a reason. 1 know that you 
throw them out because they smell. 
but let me tell you as a courtesy, you 
smell too! Your car and clothes al- 
ready reek of tobacco. 



i 1 get t 



people picking their nose while driv- 
ing. Even when your window is up, 
it docs not provide any sort of view- 
ing protection from those outside 
your car. Though we've all readied 
the point where a Kleenex just won't 
do the job. we can wait until we get 
home in the safety of our own bath- 
rooms to lake care of it. I don't know 
if you are thinking thai you ; 



mg 



i last li 






Campus Opinions 



How helpful is your adviser? 





athlete (my 
adviser) helped in 
our tremendously 
wtili choosing the 

i" i -_■ I ■ r ■ I : ■ 

during the 



you are doing but that's not the case 
cither. Or maybe you jus! don't care, 
which I applaud you for. You have a 
nasal situation, you've got u "handy" 
solution and you don't care who 

Here's something that is not excus- 
able: gel I inj; ready tor your day in the 
car! A girl I went to high school with 
got into an accident because she was 
taking off her shirt to change while- 
driving. Good call. And one time I 
was behind Betty White who was 
eomhing her hair for two stoplights' 
I was behind her, and I was honk- 
ing like crazy, but she didn't even 
inch forward 1 I have also witnessed 
people flossing, trashing their teeth 
I how dues that work.') and ol course, 
applyiniJ makeup II you are going «i 
be late for wherever yon are headed. 
just be late. 

I know that it seems like a good 
time to make a phone call while you 
are driving, but depending on the 
situation, it might not be. I can't lie 
and say that 1 never do Ihis, but if 
1 am in serious traffic, I get off my 



i pay s 



know several people that have been 
in fender benders because they were 
on the phone chatting. Just wait until 
you aren't bumper-to-bumpcr on I- 
69 at five o'clock before calling your 
best friend io tell her about your day. 
In Chicago, yon can'l he on your cell 
phone while driving through the city. 
Even if you are on the toll road, you 
must have a wireless headset or get 
off your phone. Great idea. 
Therefore, I propose that every driver 
who is either receiving j new license 
or just renewing their old one should 

nothing you'd have to study for (if 
you weren't ridiculously dumb), but 
something to gently remind us what 
is and what isn't okay on the road. 



: , . trc ■■ f The Communica ludcmb 

i ..,,,■ I Editor mturtl ■ '■' t PPh«We). 

h n |ui n ill not I n idci If publi ■■ *"' ' iherswlUooi 

. . ubl ill 

lanly Ulttre 

■ ■ ^__ 



\ h \u j m gg 



Campus Question of the Week 



What are you doing after finals? 




Woman of yesterday 
versus women of today 



:onsidcr my sell fully inde- 



and 1 



if dn Lmiidn" and "Who «ill be re- 
sponsible lor car maintenance'" My 
answer, to these questions were pret- 
ty stereotypical - 1 am not going near 
the cars and T will take care of the 
household duties and cooking. But 
I know that there are people who do 
not take this point ot view. Take my 



I enjoy knowing that 1 have a man 
Ihere w help me with things I lind 
more difficult, like ear maintenance. 
This whole topic strolled into my 
consciousness recently due to the 
culmination ol a lew events. Firstly, 
several of my best girlfriends have 
ended long term semi-long term re- 
lationships These women have 
shown so much strength that I am 
in awe of them Watching them go 
through this, while I sit back in my 
comfortable and secure relationship 
has done both of two things— make 









roar!" and silently thank God for my 
blessings. And then the other event 
that caused me to contemplate my 
view of my own feminism is some 
questions ! had to answer recently in 
a marriage preparation book. Some 
of those questions were "Who is go- 
ing to cook supper?" "Who is going 



will not ye! the women kilchcn sup- 
plies or other household objects that 
imply that the woman will be doing 
the work as gifts. Also, she will get 

thing- like mon-tcr tnitki or bulldoz- 
ers I am no! i.oing Hut it is wrong 
to do this, but what is wrong with 
gelling us what we want. 1 really 
truly want silicon baking supplies. 
But then again, if I were to have a 
little girl I don't want her to feel sell 
conscious about playing with "boy" 
toys. So I guess my whole point is. 
stay true to yourself and don't worry 
.iboni luting into the stereotype or 
don't overwhelm \oiir-,el! with -hal- 
tering it, do what feels conilortaMc. 
I think my future mother-in-law has 
done a good job as a role model of 
lining a good medium. 



Parents today lack proper 
care and responsibility 



Recently upon arriving 
home after a long, tedious 
school and work. I pulled into a park- 
ing space at my apartment complex, 
only to lind skateboards, popped bal- 
loons and basketballs strewn every- 
where. And I mean everywhere. 

In the parking lot. 

In the bushes outside my apart- 

I don't mind toys, as I had many in 
ni\ childhood, but these are the same- 
children who constantly run all over 
the complex unattended, screaming 
like ban-heeson a prison break, leav- 
ing anger and messes in their wake. 
And I think, kids will be kids. But. 
as my blood rises. I wonder: 

Where the heck are the parents? 

My personal lhcor\ i- llul people 
who are potential parents should be 
required to take an IQ test before 
conception because, in my humble 
opinion, a lot of parents are idiots. I 
won't gloss over it, and I wish 1 could 
li\ the problem by pulling birth con- 
trol in the water supply. 



Yeah, I sound like a birth control 
Nazi, and obvious K these apparently 
parentk'ss runabouts are (he excep- 
tion to the rule, but (hat dynamic is 
changing last, and I can't help but 
wonder what is going wrong with 
parents today? 

Everyone is either too busy with 



and sup- 
port a new generation of young 

If you have children, and refuse 
io discipline them, shaping them 
to become like the characters from 
"Lord of (he Hies", try not to get up- 

dards, discipline your children for 



"...I say that being a mom or 

dad is the most honorable 

profession anyone could ever 

have..." 



parental duties, or tl 
working Three jobs to support them 
selves and (heir families, so they 
can't offer much personal time. 

Why? 

What has gone so wrong in our 
countr\ thai we let our children be- 
come mongrels who run the streets 
completely unattended and without 
discipline. I'm not saying that chil- 
dren need to be spanked or no(, be- 
cause thai is an entirely separate is-aie. 
but there is something thai needs io 
happen when we decide to procreate 



k I'm put- 



h _ m ' ability to be a parent, 1 say (ha( being 
a mom or dad is the most honorable 
profession anyone could ever have, 
and to besmirch the institution by let- 
ling your children grow up ignorant 
and without manners is a waste. 

It is the waste of the development 
and respect of brilliant young minds 
with an excess of potential to be too 
afraid of your child's temper to raise 
them correctly. Mothers and fathers 
aren't friends, they are parents Read 
the manual. 



Arts &amp; Entertainment 



Iggy Pop still a punk at 60 



By Aaron Thomas 

So you're dO-years-old, you've made your 
mark, you've passed ihc proverbial torch In a 
new generation of kids who should be taking 
your specially In ;i new level and you're making 
your peak years look like child's play 

So what do you do then'.' If you go the 
route of one Jim Osterberg. belter known to 
the masses as Iggy Pup, you simply don' 






by.in&gt;&lt; 



Theatre, there were 3.500 people experiencln, 
one long explosion of rock'n'roll fury by a liv 
ing legend, virtually unmatched by anyone be 




-Muni Mil' legs Pop Ian. arc dedn.atcd-,1 levs 
decorated version of the Kiss Army. The fans 
(ranging in age from 14-60J wailed eagerly, 
trying to pa.ss the time. Some chatted amongst 
(heir friends or people they met that nigh!, and 
some drank and drank some more. One fan, not 
10 feet from the front had no intention of mov- 
ing, despite how much he had drank. So he re- 
lieved himself on the Moor and onto the legs of 
a few within his vicinity. No one got angry, they 
all understood when he said. "I just didn't want 
to lose my spot." 

Suddenly, like someone had shot them 
out of a cannon, Mike Watt, Ron Ashcton and 
Scott Ashcton all dashed on stage to their in- 
struments and immediately blasted into the 
oh so-lamiliar notes of "Loose" from the Fun 
House record. Right on cue, Iggy Pop ran on 
stage and snatched the microphone tor dear life 
to screams, cheers and deafening applause. He 
had been on stage lor seven seconds, and he al- 
ready had the audience eaiing out of lus hand. 
He bounced uncontrollably from one end of the 
stage to other and did -&gt; multiple tunes before 
even breaking a sweat. 

The band was planted downstage, leaving 
about 70 percent ol the stage open lor Iggy 
to move around freely, which he did. !l Igg\ 
stayed in one place for more than 20 seconds, 
it would be because lie was dead. Even though 
center stage was open, lie rarely went back that 
far. His place was with the audience. The ma- 
jority ol his tunc was spent along the edge of 
the stage where the lans readied out to (ouch or 
siniplv lock out with the godfather of punk rock, 
while he sang right into llieir laces and sprayed 
spit all over them When he wasn't singing, lie 
would find other things to keep him busy, such 
as crowd-surfing (much to the chagrin of secu- 
rity, who would drag hi in hack I. pouring water 
all over himself or hopping sis feel into the air 
onto the amps and humping them. 

Halfway through the set. they jumped into 




album classic ,l 1969." Iggy. much to 
of the security workers, invited 
everyone on stage to rock out with him. About 
50 super-charged teenagers plowed through the 
bouncers and rushed the sluge to sing, danec 
and rock out with the Iguana 
Man, With much concentrated 
effort, the staff cleared the 
stage when the song was over, 
even though every man, wom- 
an und child on stage was try- 
ing to hug and kiss Iggy before 
they were removed from arm's 



acholh 
There 



I ol II 



ol the classics, "I Wanna 

Your Dog."" 1970." "No Fui 

'TV Eye." "Down On i 

Street" and "Not Right" will 

lew songs from ibe 2007 album 

The Weirdness. including. "Troll in'" and "My 

Idea of Fun." The band played two encores with 




n he kneeled in the middle of Ihc 
n )0 leconds The rest of the set 
on ol passionate rock'n'roll like 
fore experienced in my life. 'Hie 
roof could'vc blown right off the 
!--■■ .-■!«-- and no one would'vt 
been surprised No one would 
forgcl seeing Iggy Pop in pcr- 

Kccp in mind Iwo things: 
most of the songs played ore 
almost 30-ycars-old. and Iggy 
turned 60-years-old on April 2 1 . 
Doing what Ihey did thai night 
was no small font. 

It comes down to this: I've 
seen well over 150 bands play 

Thomas In ,| 1L , [ as( |() y CarSi ;int j (ms wag 
simply the best show I've ever 

0. Do yourself a favor and go sec Iggy 

Idle you have the chance. 



Robertson Reminisces 



/ of IPFW, there have fc 




registrar's office. "We did 
a lot of performing," Rob- 
ertson said, recalling thai 
they had to set up folding 



at the First Presbyh 
Theater since IPFW 
no recital hall at 



Although il was a temporary situation, the 
department was housed in the TROMs lor 
several years. The whole faculty had one 
piano to teach on and very tight practic- 
ing quarters. Robcnson laught form and 
analysis classes as well as performance 
class in ihese trailers. "We made do with 
very limited resources." he said. 

By 1982, the music department was 
in the basement of Ihc 
Classroom-Medical 
Budding, just in time for 
the big Hood of '82. The 

recently purchased new 
Steinway grand pianos. 
"It was scary," Robert- 
son said. Faculty were 
: power could be 



I oft to the I 



mance. music therapy 
an outside lield. "Gctl 
was a turning point, 
several years before I 

Bloomington in order 



at any time. Despite this 
they moved each piano 
up to the first floor, till- 
ing the grands sideways 

to fit inside the elevator. 
Courtesy of Masson Robertson j ne power was cut off af- 
:es approved tcr the pianos were placed in an upstairs 
staled. For classroom. Luckily, CI ass room -Med i- 
lent of their cal sustained tittle damage, although the 
1 to travel lo bascmenl of Walb Student Union was 
■division ex- Hooded wnh enough water to allow the 
It was really chancellor m paddle about in a canoe to 

view Ihc damage, 
msic faculty This semester marks the retiremcni 

i recount Ihe of Robcnson. Over the course of his ca- 
at IPFW he has laught music theory, 
in Kcttler Hall, then in Ncff Hall and then the ear training, performance class and ac- 
Classroom- Medical Building. Between the Kel- eompanying. in addition lo giving private 
tier to Neff move, the depart ineiii was boused in lessons and acting as chair of the music 
TROMs (Temporary Removable Office Mod- department in 1973 and 1993. 
ules). which were trailers parked out in a lield. "I like lo teach, but I also like to 

perform," said Robertson. He 
noted that one of his favorite 
parts of being i 




and seeing how (hey develop 



will be held 
i Tuesday. 



, Willi 



Robertson will also be pres- 
ent at Ihe Chancellor's Re- 
tiree Reception on Thursday, 
April 26 at 4 p.m. in Walb 
Student Union in rooms 222- 
26. Students are welcome to 
attend boih events. 



Campus 

^^ ** 1 ^^ mi* *M m 


IPFW 


uaienoj 


for April 26-May 2, 2007 


26 ACCS Express Lanes: 1 5-minute 


Black Collegian Caucus First 


drop-in resume critiques, KT 109, 


Caucus Conference: WU, 8 a.m.- 


noon-2 p.m. For information, call 


3 p.m. Admission S5 or freewill 


16595. 


donation. Fashion show/lalenl expo, 




WUBallroom.7 10p.m. Admission ' 


Guest Lecture: "Underslanding 


$5. For information, call 1 6847. 


Korean Culture through Traditional 




Patterns," Hai Kyung Kim, IPFW 


Alliielic Events: Baseball vs South 


College ol Visual ami Pel forming Arts; 


Dakota Slate, 1 p.m.; Men's Tennis 


KT 243, 2 p.m. Sponsored by the 


Championships continue. For 


Office of Inlernalional Programs. For 


infonnalion.call 16643. 


information, call 16494. 






Theatre Event: More Fun Than 


Athletic Events: Softball vs. Butler, 


Bowling, by Sleven Dietz; WT, 8 p.m. 


3 p.m.; Men's Tennis MAC 


Forticketinformation.call 16555. 


Championships, all day. For 




information, call 16643. 


29 Campus Visit Day: WU, 1-3 p.m. 




For information, call 16812. 


Theatre Event: More Fun Than 




Bowling, by Steven Dietz; WT. 8 p.m. 


Athletic Events: Softball vs Oakland. 


Forticketinformation.call 16555. 


noon; Baseball vs. Defiance, noon. 




For information, call 16643. 


27 Tapestry: ADaj for Women: Allen 




County War Memorial Coliseum, 


Theatre Event: More Fun Than 


8 a.m.-4 p.m. Actress Patty Duke. 


Howling, by Sleven Dietz; WT, 2 p.m. 


keynote speaker lor information, call 


For ticket information, call 16555. 


16807. 






1 Concert: Fori Wayne Area 


Athletic Events: Baseball vs. Soulh 


Community Band spring concert. 


Dakota Slate, 1 p.m.; Men's Tennis 


Scottish Rite Auditorium, 7:30 p.m. 


MAC Championships continue. For 


Adults SI 0. Seniors S7. Students S5, 


information, call 16643 


children 6 and under free. For 




information, call 16714. 


IPFW WritcrsGroup:KTG 19,2- 




4 p.m. April's theme is 'I: scape*." For 


2 ACCS Express Lanes: 1 5-minute 


information, call 16028. 


drop-inresumCcritiqucs.KT 109, 




1 1 a.m-1 p.m For information, call 


Theatre Event: Mure Fun Than 


16595. 


Bowling, by Steven Dietz; WT, 8 p.m. 




For ticket information, call 16555. 


1 he Writing Center will be open for 




consulting Summer 1 through Summer 


28 PRAXIS: CM lobby. 7:30a.m. For 


II. May 2 1 through Aug. 2. Hours are 


information, call 14153. 


available Mondays, Tuesdays, and 




Thursdays noon-4 p.m. For 


12th Annual Mastodon StompSK 


information, call 16028. 


Walk/Run: GC, 9a m for information. 




call 16647. 




This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



,11 . .-■■■: 




Sports Events 
4/25-4/29 



—a 



♦ Women's Track 

Hillsdale Gina Relays 
6 p.m. Hillsdale, Mich. 



All Day Fori Wayne, Ind. 



Sports 

Mark Pope. IPFW Director 
of Athletics, says bye 



+ Baseball Snuth 
Dakota St 1 p.m. 
Fort Wayne, Ind. 



Courtesy of the IPFW 
Athletics Department 



(Fort Wayne. Apnl 20. 20()7) - 
Indiana University — Purdue Univer- 
sity Fort Wayne (IPFW) Chancellor 
Michael A. Warlell announced at 
noon today (Friday, April 20) that he 
has regieitulh accepted Director of 
Athletics Mark Pope's letter of resig- 
nation, effective June 30. 2007. 

Warlell said, "It is v. nil a prolound 
.sense of sadness that 1 accept Mark's 
resignation Mark tuts been with 
IPFW for si\ years. Jn d in that lime, 
he has been the dnwng lurcc pio|xl- 
liny our athletics department to great 
levels of achievement. I must thank 
Mark lor his tireless etfoiis m getting 
NCAA Division I certification lor 
IPFW in September 2002 and more 
recently, for getting IPFW into the 
Mid-Continent Conference." Wartcll 
continued in his praise for Pope, not- 
ing some of his other achievements, 
including increasing attendance 
at many of the Mastodon sporting 
events: men's basketball attendance 
has increased ten times over what it 
was in 2000, including the highcst- 
pcrccnlagc increase in all Division I 
institutions in 2003-04; women's vol - 
]e\b.ill attendance doubled Irom 2IHM- 
to 2005; and men's volleyball atten- 
dance was ranked third in the country 
in 2004 and 2006. Wartcll also cited 
the increase in corporate marketing 
revenues by 175 percent from 2003 
to 2006. "But Mark wasn't just con- 



eontnbulions," said Wartcll, "He was 
truly focused on what was best lor 
our student-athletes He knows the 
importance of getting a gixvd educa- 
tion, and set a departmental goal of 
a 3.0 grade point average. That goal 
has been met for the past three \cars, 
and we arc all very proud of that." 

Pope came to IPFW from Lin- 
coln National Corporation, where he 
served as Vice President of Federal 
Regulations. He is .1 graduate ot both 
Purdue .ind Indiana, earning a B.A. 
at Purdue and a J.D. from Indiana 
University's School of Law. Pope 
has been very' involved in the Fort 
Wayne community over the years. 
He is a graduate of Leadership Fort 
W,i\nc. and has -ericd on the boards 
of the Allen County War Memorial 
Coliseum. ARCH, Fort Wayne Urban 
League, the History Center, Junior 
Achievement. Bishop Lucrs High 
School, United Way, and the Fort 
Wayne Bicentennial Council. He- has 
been an attorney lor 27 years and is 
listed in Who's Who in American 
Law and is a Fellow of the Indiana 
State and Indianapolis Bar Founda- 
tions. Pope and his wife, Julie, arc 
the proud parents of two sons. Brent 
and Brad. 

Pope said when he came to IPFW, 
In- developed In c goal- lor the Athlet- 
ics Department The first goal was to 
attain Division I certification, winch 
was achieved September I. 2002 
schedule and on budget Second w,i 
to increase the depart menial gradi 
point average to 3.0; that fi 
achieved for the past seven 



n.ik-.i 






tcrs. culminating in a 3.11 GPA this 

past fall. On top of that, the Softball, site: 57 percent male and 43 percent 

tennis, and cross country and track female That's a violation of Gender 

teams have earned All Academic Equity and Title IX. i made the hard 

honors from their respective associn- decisions to gel our deportment in 

lions. Third on Pope's list was gender balance with the campus numbers, so 

equity. He said, "In 2001. our campus that, for the past two years, we have' 
was 57 percent female and 43 percent Pope: Page A8 



Students bike in Little Five 



7*nwri 




IPFW sweeps Grace College with 
VanDriessche driving in seven runs 



First game: 5-2, Second game: 13-4 



Courtesy of the IPFW 
Athletic Department 



Fort Wayne, IN - IPFW used the long-ball to- 
day in a double-header sweep of Grace College 
at Mastodon Field. The 'Dons took the opener 
5-2 and captured the nightcap 13-4. 

In the opener, the Mastodons spotted the 
Lancers a I -0 lead in the first, but that was quick- 
ly erased by a lead-off home run by freshman 
second baseman Mark Garden It was Garden's 
first round-tnppcr of the year. 

Grace took a 2- 1 lead in the fourth on an RBI 
single from third baseman Chay Bailey. 

IPFW would break it open in the 5th inning 
i blast from junior center fielder 
Jaivd Davis li was Daws' third bomb of the 



Reliever Man Ransboiiom came on in the 
fourth and pitched three innings of no-hit ball for 
hi- second win of the season. 

Grace starter Greg Priodc took the loss. 

In game two, it was all freshman first base- 
man Shaun VanDriessche. 

In the second inning VanDriessche went yard 
for his second homer of the season, a solo shot, 
giving the 'Dons a 1-0 lead. 

Grace lied it in the 3rd inning on an RBI bunt I 
single by center fielder Hans Gricpenlrog. 

That set the stage for more VanDriessche he- 
roics in the bottom of the frame. With the bases 
loaded, VanDriessche blasted a 450 fool homer 
to center field. 1 lie grand slam made it 6-1. 

VanDriessche drove in two-more in the 6th, 
finishing the game with 7 RBI as the 'Dons 



ME ADVANTAGE OF 
THIS GREAT 

DEAL AND DRIVE HOME 
IH A NEW GM VEHICLE. 




^^3 



achieved ihc Gender Equity requirements nf 
bolh Ihc NCAA and Til!c IX " Next on his lisl 
was fund-raising Under Pope's guidance, the 
department developed Ihc firsi compreliensivc 
Spon.s Marketing program within IPFW Aihlcl- 
ics, He says it will raise more money this year 
than in any prior year. The lifih and fm.il goal 
Pope set was y.ii n inj? conference .il'lilialioii He 
culled thai Ihe inosl imp. in .ml .mil ililm nil goal. 
because it was also the most critical to IPFW'a 
coaches, fans, and student-athletes. 

Pope says all of the other notable accom- 
plishments ol the dep;irtmcnt. such as ihc rede- 
sign of the Soceci Showcase, moving the men's 
haskethjll games to the Mi.ninri.il Coliseum, 
helping establish IPFW's Homecoming tradi- 
tion. Ihe Athletics Hall of Panic, and instituting 
men's and women's golf as sponsored sports, 
were strategics to jiccomplish Ins live primary 
goals. 

Pope said, "Having ,n i umpltshed these 
goals, 1 believe lhal Ihe lime is appropriate for 
Julie and me lo pursue 
ventures. Thai's why I told Chancellor Wartcll 
thai I would i 

the end of the lisca! year. Julie and I are pursu- 
ing sinne opportunities, boili in .uid out of Fori 
Wayne at ihis time, and the June Mi ending dale 
may be modified, if 



presents itself h 

He went on 
"Firsl of all. I want to thank Chancellor War- 
tcll for giving mc this wonderful opportunity 
six years ago; I'd like to thank ihe faculty and 
staff of IPFW for Ihcir generous and significant 
help in developing our program. I sincerely 
appreciate all the boosters, the corporate spon- 
sors, and the fans who made Ihis all possible. 
There aren't enough thanks for the hardest- 
working and most dedicated group of people 
lhal I've ever had Ihc pleasure to work with: 
our coaches and staff. They went far beyond 
the e spec ted, performing incredible tasks under 
very difficult circumstances. Finally, I want to 
lliank the reason I'm here our student-athletes. 
Their daily examples of dedication, hard work. 
and self-sacrifice have been my inspiration. I 
hope 1 leave this place better than it was before 
I arrived; bul that's lor others to determine. Ju- 
lie and I will always have a warm plate in our 
hearts for IPFW and we can't wait to watch our 
compele for conference championships 
and NCAA K 

Wartell said the search for Pope's replace- 
ill begin immediately. For more infor- 




1_0 % ofF Any Service 

^™^^. ^^' ' • Brakes • Exhaust • Factory Mafnun 



/ith student I.D. 



Factory Maintenance service i 
Radiators • Suspension ■ Wheel Alignment 
Belts • Hoses • Headlamps • Bulbs b More 




