THE 



Communicate 



Thursday, Feb. 15. 2Q01 



Indiana University -Purdue University Fort Wayne 



tL^- 


^9^H Anthony Hopkins 


Music professor Barbara 


■li 


I^^^I^H repnses role as senal 


Resch enlightens students 


WM 


^^3^1 killer Hannibal Lector / 


with unique approach to 


VOLUME 35 ^m-^' 


^^^B page 


teaching / page 3 


ISSUE 20 ■? 


- ^ 






Fire breaks out in 
lower Walb Union; 
no one injured 



On WciJfics4ay. Feb ?. M 6 p.m.. 
a imjil Tire broke our in ihe ciuiodlan*! 
cloj« in Walb Union Room G29. Il is 
believed ihal Ihe Tire wis siancd 
because a piece of cardboard wns 
placed 100 cloie Id an eleclric healer 
said Chief or Pohce and SofcLy Lauren 
Denhurlog. 

The Tiie wai canfincd In the (txirn 
and the hall ditecily acrois from il. 
Heal aclivaled a tingle iprinkler head. 
pulling out Ihe names. No one was 
injured in ihc incidem. 



"ITie exlcnl of ihe damage v.a.-. i 
scorched spoi on the wall Ahcrc ihc 
fire occurred. The cafelcria had to he 
cleared out so ihe food would not b&lt;^ 
affccled by smoke tetiilue.' ^aiil 
Dcnhanog. 

The lower level of Walb Union 
wa.'^ immedialely blocked olT and wj.&lt;; 
nol cenpcned unlil several hours laier 

'Il was a marter of cleaning up all 
Ihc walet." said Denhnrlog. That's 
why we have fire syslems on campus. 
We hope we don'i have lo lest Ihem like 
this again. Thank goodness they 
worked well." 



'Il 



— 


r" 



Pholo by Doday Jong, Photo Editor 

TtiB lira in a DasemBnl storage roorn in Walb Union leli Ittile 
damage olhar than a bum I piece ol cardboard and scorch 



IPFW to commemorate Michael Downs 



By Gloria de Faria, 
Chiel Reporter 



As IFFW mourns ihe untimely 
death of Michael Downt. who 
passed away Wednesday, Jan, 24, 
faculty members have teamed up to 
organiic a Celebration of Life cere- 
mony in his memory. Dowiu wu 
aiiDcialc proreiior of- Polillcii 
Science and chair of the depanmenl. 



The Celebration i&amp; scheduled for 
Monday, Feb. 19 from noon lo I 
p.m. m the Williams Theatre. The 
event is free and open to Ihe public. 

"Mike Downs was a very 
important memberof Ihc faculty for 
33 ycari. and this is a nice way for 
Ihe campus lo show its recognition 
for Ihc service he has perforrncd." 
said Van Coufoudakis, dean of Arts 



Mike as he was.. .most importantly 
lo give continuity lo his efTons. 
such as fundroising and lo follow 
his enample as a faculty leader." 
said Bill Frederick, associate pro- 
fessor of mathematics. 

Chancellor Michael Wartell 
will make opening remarks at the 
ceremony. The IPFW Chamber 
Choiale, under the direction of 
William Skoog ard the IPFW 
Saxophone Quartet, under the direc- 
tion of /ames Ato(. will perform 
selections from JOsqum Desprei, 
among olhera, Henntne Van Nuii, 



associate professor of English and 
Linguistics, will recite poeliy by 
Henry Vaughan and T.S. Elliot. 



obvii 



■This' 
isly , 






veil. It &lt; 



Officer served campus over 18 years 



By Mishanna 
Wood, News Editor 



Man 



iys7. f 



had a 



Lauren Dcnharlog. 
Police and Safety, ne was 
one of Ihc few officers lo 
stay with IPFft' for ovei 18 
Police and Safely years, 
officer Daniel F. Matthews Over the years, 

recently died after a 17- Matthews has palrolled on 
year battle with Hodgkins. first, second and third 
disease. He was 47 years shifts. He was also a bly Ihe be 
old- domestic violenccand CPR could %\&lt;. 

Matthews began insttvictor. Denhatlog. 

working at IPFW as a sec- 'He'll be missed. He 



mined lo beat it. He n&gt; 






i 



Area graphic artists share works 




"Visiting 
Writers Series 
to feature poet 
Allison Joseph 



By Gloria de FarJa, 
Chief Reporter 



Renowned poet Allison Joseph 
Hill visit IPFW Monday. Feb. 26, as 
pan of the department of English and 
linguistics' Visiting Writers Series. 
Joseph will read from her woik starting 
at noon in Walb 02 1. The event is free 
and open to the public. 

"This will be a major cultural 
event, nol only for English majors but 
for the entire campus community 
because she is a distinguished poet. It 
IS important that students interact with 
J practicing poet, especially siudinls in 
creative writing." said Mary Helen 
Thucnie, chair of the English 
DcpanmenL 

"She IS a wonderful poet." said 
George Kalamaras. associate professor 
of English and coordinator of the 
Visiting Writers Series. "Hei poetry 
exhibits passion and dynamism. It is 
good lo have eiposuie to a publishing 
poet and also an editor," he continued. 

Joseph, who edits the national lil- 
eraiy journal Crab Orchard Review, is 
an associate professor of English at 
Southern Illinois University in 
Caibondale. Her work focuses on con- 
temporary American poetry, with spe- 



Multicultural 
Services 
to honor 
Great men 
and women 
at Diversity 
Breakfast 

by Heidi Saliba, 
Managing Edilor 



For the first time in its l-l-ycar history. Ihc 
Diversily Breakfast hosted by Multicultural 
Servieei will honor both men and women al its 

The breakfast is scheduled for Saturday, 
Feb 24 from 8-30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. and will be 
held in Ihe Walb Ballioam. 

The "Great Men and Women: TTicy Made a 
Difference Diversity Breakfast" is open lo 
everyone and will honor Five area leaders who 



One of this year's recipients is Beltyc 
Poignard, who stalled the program in I98S. 
Poignard warned to increase awareness, on cam- 
pus and in the community, of the accomplish- 
ments of black males. 

"At that time, a lot of block male-bashing 
was going on." said Chris Patterson, director of 
Multiculiural Services. "Since then it has 
evolved to include men of all race*, and ii now 
including women." 

This event used to be for men only. "In 
2001, we will llnally be able to recognize 
women for making a dilTerence in the lives of 
IPFW and Ihc Fort Wayne community," 
Paltetson said. 

Other honorccs, who were chosen by a 
committee, include Dr. Terrell M. Bund, Jr.. 
M.D. of Obslclrics and Gynecology. leanelte 
Clausen, assistant vice-chancellor of Academic 
Affairs at IPFW; Linda Fox, associate professor 
of Spanish and director of Women's Studies at 
IPFW; the Reverend Mike Nickleson. pastor of 
Mount Calvary Missionary Baptist Church in 
Fort Wayne and Eiel Smith, custodian al IPFW. 

Workforce Dcvelopmenl with the Fon Wayne 
Chamber of Commerce, 

"Bettye Poignard is being lecogniied 
because if it were not for her. we would not have 
the program." Patterson said. "Dr. Bond is being 
recogniied not only for Ihe things he docs in the 
community but also for programs he's a pan of. 
Ke attends the 'Great Men' breakfast every year 
and panicipatcs in study circles. At times. I won- 

Palterson went on to say that Clausen is 
being honored "...because of the intensity of her 
commitmem lo diversity, ^ne aoesn t just taJK 
the talk, she walks the walk. Her commitment 
goes beyond Ihe university. She's involved in 
study circles. She has been a facilitator of study 
circles since its inception three years ago. She is 
a change-maker in ihe posilion to bring aboui 
more change at Ihe university " 

Patterson said Fdk "...goes well beyond 
the call of duty in promoting diversity. It is 
through her efforts that (the course! Black 
Women in America. ..it offered again on 
campus." 

Patterson added thai Foi initiated an on- 
campus program for Native American month, 
which includes Native American anisli coming 
lo campus lo sell their goods. 



remember the life of o 
most impotlam faculty members 
who had been here for many years, 
and worked on behalf of the umver- 
sily to make this a good school," 
Van Nuis said. 

Other members of the Fort 
Wayne community will also speak 
al iheevenr. which will close with 
remarks from Coufoudakis 



Patlenon added, ' 
Jeaneite Clausen ; 
help lo minonty sli 



very personal level, 
nda Fox both eiu:nd 
31 IPFW." 






iling 



:and the teaching of cri 



Ffio^o t&gt; DetSa, Jang. Pr-olo Edtor 

Area graphic anisis' limshed produtis are currently on aspay m ir-.c main gallery ol Ihe School 

Ol Visual and Performing Ans Trie pieces are being displayed lo create a belter av^areness of 

some ol the Ihmgs graphic artists do on Ihe job The three-Qimenslonal model in tha loteground ' 

was produced by Icon Exhibits for an outside display. ' 



Biographical information from 
jJvcnising fliers indicates Joseph is 
the author of priie- winning collections 
of poeuy such as What Keeps us Here, 
Soul Train, and In Every Scam. 

Individual A/lists Fellowship in Poetry 
from Ihe Illinois Ans Council (199S- 
1996). A Tennessee Williams 
Scholarship from the Sewanee Writers' 
Conference and the Stanley P. Young 
Fellowship in Poetry from the Bread 
Loaf Writers' Conference. 



Reverend Nickleson is being recognized 
for the work he has done with IPFW and the Fon 
Wayne Ministerial Alliance, in trying to create 
awareness of the need for post-secondary educa- 
tion in the community. Nickleson has a long his- 
tory of working wid) East Allen County Schools. 

"He's been a vocal pan in their hinng prac- 
tices, curriculum and discipline procedures. He's 
been al the forefront of addressing ihrne issues, 
panicularly when they became race- based 



PFW Custodian Ezel Smidi will receive 
special recognition al Ihe Great Men and Women 
Breakfast, "...for rrwre than SO years of having 
shown die quality of being noble in character." 
Patterson said. 



Opinions 



Arabs and Middle Easterners profiled as terrorists in the news 



~Aik an 'averagE Americin' wlul coma lo 
mind when you Hy ihe word toronst and you are 
likely to gel Uie roponic 'a bearded Anb male,'" 
Lhui begini J,H. Wnlebols" IWI esiay "Wordj 
■nd Worlds of Terror Contcm and Meaning of i 
Mtdia Buziurord ~ 

Wiiiebnii' piovoking inuoducuon lo hit 
eiuy luggcsU jusl how bninwaihcd Amencans 
aie by ihE r ' 






t. hai made a largely 









like Wiue 






shown, the media doet afretl the way 

ue. ai Ameiicatu. Ihink aboui and peiceive cer- 

Uin Muc%. people and everu. 

Why then doet ihe American media ponray 
moil Arab naliom and ihcir populaiioni u vche- 

ll's a queilion wilh imniin«nlly impoiuni 

Wcare guided by the media. The media seu 
ihe [one of our impreuions and opinions. The 
medla'i portiayal of Arabs is decidedly one- 
tided. Our media would have us believe every 
Arab holes Americans and wishes we were all 
dcad&gt;and isn't afraid to act on his wishes 

If we perceive Arab nations as ami- 
American tcnnnsU, we will perceive Ihem as our 
cncmiet. And we will hale Ihcm. If all we sec. 
read or hear aboul from Arab and Istamie coun- 
liics IS tcnorisU bombing our overseas embauies 
arvd murdering our suldicrs and ciuzcns, Ihen we 
will be far mofc susceptible and easily persuaded 
to hale every Arab alive. We will do so because 
WB will fear Ihem. We will fear far our livci, the 
lives of our loved ones, our property and our 

The media muil know what we want. They 
make Ihcir money selling us what we want &lt;o read 
about or watch while we cat our sleaki and pota- 
toes. And ihcy find out our tosici through count- 
less polls, market analysis and then own reader or 
viewer ftxdbock outlets. 

Is this what we want to see or reod^Or is the 
media wiong in their inlerptetalion of 6ur needs 
and wants as consumers? 

It could be that, as a nation, we hunger for 
an enemy. Since the Cold War crumbled, the US 
hasn't had any signiricanl threats (o its security. 



iful crusade i 
Ihe vacancy the USSR left. 

Studies such as Witubols' 
researcher Ljrry Johnson's curr 
that Amencans in droves fear la 

Even top US government otTicials like Ihe 
president, according to Johnson, identify lerror- 
isls u the primary threat lo our safety 

The idea of Islam as an enemy, however, 
lacks the nolonety attributed by Ihe media. 

The reahly i- that terrorism has declined. 
Researcher Lairy Johnson's study m this month's 
publicBlion of Amencan Behavioral Scientist 
notes that "radical Islamic groups account Tor 
only a smalt percentage of terrorist attacks" (4 
percentage Johnson does not piovidc) and dtat 
"during the 1990s, incidenls of tenotism fell to 
the lowest levels since statistics were Ttrsl collect- 
ed by the U.S. government m 1968." 

Johnson's study suggests that lenorist 
groups represent a small number of people and 
interests. He also suggests that such groups are 
actually relatively powcrlcss-at least in compait- 
son to the military superpower the United States 
is known lo be. His essay goes on to say that the 
primary reason why terrorist groups are able to 
survive is that certain states (he notes the former 
USSR. Iraq and Cuba to name a few) have "spon- 
sored" these groups and provided Ihem with 
"training, intelligence and safe havens." Johnson 
says that these nations' "willingness to sponsor 
tenorists helped transform icrronsm from an iso- 
lated domestic phenomenon into an international 
threat" artd that without such sponsorship, these 
factions "would have had little capability to con- 

rcspcctive domestic bases." 

Terrorist groups are highly manipulative and 
fairly perceptive o( human emotion and thought 
processes. Their largest and most effective 
weapon is instilling fear into their enemies' 

Their most efTcctive modus operandi of 
doing this is their tjsc and manipulation of the 
media. In his 1976 book titled "The Fuulity of 
Terrorism." media researcher W. Laqueur writes 



Gabriel 



Weim 



1991 






Research titled 
Newsworthiness of International Tenmtm" sug- 
gests that this statement means that the media 

needs" by "providing ihem with a powerful 
irtslrument-Ihe mass media." Weirrunn infers this 
from evidence compiled in a 12-year study on 



-all II 
1969 and I 



ivealed a significant 

nations (though the perpetrators are non- Western) 
and that are directed to attract the attention of Ihe 

Johnson concedes that the "modern age of 
terrorism" began during Ihe 1972 Munich 
Olympic Ciimes (when "Palestinian tenons is 
held German secunty fonxs at bay. demanding 
the release of comrades held in Israeli Jails") and 
had its "high-water mark" in 19S7 (when the 
United Slates decided to overhaul its anU-lcrror- 
ism policy after the Iran-Conlra fiasco). 

Johnson's work shows thai "the age of ter- 
rorism" should be on its way out. yet largely it 
resonates in our minds and in our media. 

been argued to have its beginnings in the Dork 
Ages, when Chnsuan and Muslim soldiers end- 
lessly battled for control of Jenualem. That same 
battle is still being fought today. This is on area 
considered holy by three major world religions: 
Islam, Christianity and Judaism. 

The basis of the light Ihen. as il is now, is 
religion. 

Terrorisls. at least for radical Muslim 
groups, contend that their reasons lie pilmanly in 
their religious beliefs. Much of the conflict arises 
in the age-old fight for the Holy Land. America 
promises lo defend its ally, Israel, while radical 
Muslim groups wish to oust Israel and lake the 
Holy Land for themselves. America stands, ot 
least in some respects, in their way. 

Other radicals fight for other reasons. 
Osama Bin Laden, for example, most likely fights 
because of a combination of reasons and motives. 



late 1970s left him with an anti-Antencui senti- 
ment, as most wars leave the combatants despis- 
ing each other. Bin Lidcn also must have some 
religious motives behind his doings. What tfiey 
are. however, is less clear. 

Radicals either seek some son of revenge 
foi perteived wrongs Amenca may have been 
responsible for in the past, or they seek lo altick 
the larger ally of their sworn enemy. Israel. 

Relalions between Arab nations and 
America stand only to improve should the media 
change their news content. However, arc they 
wrong la show us so many images of terrorism? 
After all, isn't this what uc want to see or know 
about? 

Relations will never improve until the 
American people start to see things the woy that 
they really arc. When uc start questioning what 
wc sec on television, others will follow suit. 
Media executives will notice our disbelief and so 
will politicians. The media will lessen their cov- 
erage of terrorism and lerronsl groups will take 
notice. After all. the media is the face of this 
nation. American media is enormously pervasive 
and omnipresent. Terrunsts will begin to sec that 
their tactics no longer work or have as much of »n 
effect and they will be forced lo cither seek new 
tactics or refrain fiom attacking Americans. 

Someone here is at fault. Is the media w-rong 
in giving us what wc want? Should the media take 
on more responsibility for the influence they have 
over Ihe public? This in itself would Titst enlail 
■he media accepting some son of responsibility 
over how their reporting affects their viewers. 

Perhaps the media's initial coverage of ter- 
rorism began with genuine motives and a clear- 
headed and relatively unbiased attitude. However, 
current research and studies of terrorism' based 
itews stories irrefutably show that just the oppo- 
site holds true' The news is biased, at least when 
it comes to reporting on icirorism. News should 
never be biased. But it is. 



Zero for zero: The potential interactions of universities, dollars and voters 



lust a few months ago. Indiar 
Governor Frank O'Bannon was tou 
ing. among other things, his com mi 
ineni lo education. In what turned oi 
to be a successful re-election bit 
O'Bannon i;ampaignEd on basclir 
issuu Hoosicn are 
Like other American! 



hiring, negligible siaff pay raises and 
the polenual for increased tuition " 

Are these not the very things we 
complain about most on this campus? 
How many limes do nc hear about the 
need for increased funding to simply 
maintain our operations? In every 'On- 
compus profile &amp; review' ih at has been 
printed in The Communicator, depart- 
ment representatives have iircsscd the 







schools and 


dents to have to 


communities. 


choose between a 


other officials, his 


day in the active 


woidb were genetic 
enough thai come 
debate or decision 


employment of our 


education and the 


l.mc. he could weasel 


need to show up 


implied endorsements. 


for a written exam 


And so It goes with 


on its tenets? 


What kind of mes- 


found at The News. 


sage is that? 



the 



d form 



efund 



iling than funding denials from elect- 
d officials or lack of follow -through 
n the part ot our media, it's lack of 
upporx widiin our community. By 

Kol economies and increase opportu- 
ilies for cultural and artistic Cipies- 
ion. Universities arc not just supple- 
ienls to an area, they arc essential to 
s intellectual and ideological well- 



represent ui 






words of Bob pari thi 






(dated :-2.0l) states 

that O'Bannon recommended a : 

increase in the budget of IPFW. 



Kostruba 
Information and 

Technology Services, 
"we're not asking for a 
Cadillac, we're asking to 
be a university," (From aij 
interview last fall.) 

The budget for ITS, 
as well as other depan- 
menis around campus, is 
barely enough to maintain 
whatever facilities we 
already have Little to no 
funds exist for the univer- 
sity to seriously compete 
with odicrs its size. Hie 
News-Sen 



also reports that. 'Tax cuts, a slowing 
economy and higher than anticipated 
costs have contributed to lower fund- 
ing for higher education." 

Are wc expected to believe this? 
Who's saying that? Are these the 
Governor's wonJs or the interpreta- 
tions of the reponer? Haven't we been 
, . fighting this battle, long before lix 

Sentinel's article reads. "A aero- cuts, a slowing economy and 'higher 
increase in budget recommendations thanBnlicipaledcasts7'Costs forwhal. 
for higher education from Gov, Frank specifically? What happened tothebil- 
O'Bannon's initial budget request has lion-dollal surpluses the media has 
[PFW Chancellor Michael A. Watlell told us about the last couple of years? 
concerned about poicntlal repcrcus- Worse, why aren't journalists asking 
aions for the school — including polcn- and reporting on these tj-pes of ques- 
lial loss of faculty because of low tions? 
salaries; little new. full-time faculty If anything could be more devas- 

Consider This... 



I other leros. which follow a 
ro number. Just zero, 
iro. apparently, is his commit- 
□ higher education in the stale ol 
a. The paragraph in the News- 
budget 



Buraging that eveiy 
year more ana more students take part 
in annual bus trips lo Indianapolis, 
orgoniixd to lobby our legislators. It is 
discouraging, however, that some pro- 
fessors still give exams on the day that 
this trip is scheduled. 

Professors arc informed of the 
date of the trip well in advance of their 
due date for syllabi. They are remind- 
ed a couple of times, in fact Yet il con- 
tinues that students arc required to 
attend class to take exams or lose Ihe 
opponunity to do well 
When students ask professors to 
reconsider the exam's date or allow 
them to lake the exam immediately 
before or aflcr the bus trip, and these 
requests are denied, the message to 
students is bafRing. How are we to 
argue for the need for more pmfessors. 
equitable funding, ond improved pro- 
grams and technologies when key per- 
sons who would be affected by those 
changes are not willing to adjust a sin- 
gle day of dteir entire 16-week sched- 
ule so students can meet widi Uieir leg- 
islators? What kind of sense can be 
made out of this, on the receiving end 
of contradiclory statements? Is it fair 
for students lo have to choose between 
a day in Ihe aciive employment of our 
education and Ihe need lo show up for 
a written exam on its tenets? What 
kind of message is thai? 



actions when we cannot, as a campus, 
make our colleclive voices heard so 
that ignoring us in no longer an option. 
If we orcn'I in this logethcr. die cam- 
pus as a whole lacks credibility when 
describing its purposes and needs. 
Either professors should stop giv- 
ing exams on the day of the anm ' 
bus trip, 

slep in and close the 
day It IS scheduled, 
way. everyone — stu 



departmenn and a synchroniwd inter- 
disciplinary infraslnicturc to raise up 
more students like diose who are fea- 
tured in Student Success Stories. We 



Governor 
non to proclaim their endotsc- 
if "Zero Tolerance" policies, in 
regards to drug use 
ind trade. I Ihink we 
lough I 

' " O'Bann 

back wiU 




"Consider this" is a feature of the Opinions 
page which will list quotes for consideiaiion and 
scrutiny. The quotes are nol intended to endorse 
or prescribe any particular viewpoint, but to pro- 
vide starting points for discussion. 

Do you agree or disagree widi any of the 
following quotes? Do you see relationships 
between and among thBquotc5?Can you think of 
current nevts items to which any of these quotes 
arc relevant' Arc the sources of these quotes 

Please respond to. sound off. suppon or 
challenge these quotes via submissions to the edi- 
tor. Please read and reply to: 



ullhdOI@hoImes.lprw.edu 

"She said that 1 must always be intolerant of 
ignorance but understanding of illiteracy." ~from 
"I Know Why the l^ged Bird Sings" (p. g3), by 
MayaAngelou. 1969 

"On removing tg Indiana, the white people 
did not seem so hostile allogelher. nor want the 
colored people to knuckle quite so low. There 
were mote white people who were (nendly than 
in North Carolina. I was not allowed my vote nor 
my oath. There were more who wished colored 
people to have their nghts than in North Carolina. 



in Indiar 



Editorial Board I Contact Us! 



timonial of former slave Thomas Hedgebcth. ai 
told in "The Refugee: Narratives of Fugiiivi 
Slaves in Canada Related by Themselves." 1856 

"Token integration is a developing pattern. 
This type of integration is merely an affirmation 
of a principle without Ihe substance of change." 
-Dr. Martin Luther King. Jr., 1959 

"Our greatest danger is that in the great leap 
from slavery lo freedom we may overlook the 
fact that Ihe masses of us are to live by the pro- 
ductions of our hands, and fail to keep in mind 
that we shall prosper in proportion as wc leam lo 
dignify and glorify common labour and put 



prosper in proportion as we leam lo 
ne between the superficial and the sub- 
stanlial, the ornamental gewgaws of life and the 



isetul- 

"No race can prosper till it teams that there 
is as much dignity in tilling a field as in writing &gt; 
poem. It is at the bottom of life we must begin, 
and not at the lop. Noc should we permit our 
gnevances to overshadow our opportuniues." 
-former slave Booker T. Washington. The Atlanta 
Exposition Address, IS9S 



Editorial Policy 



lkidlSiilibi..iriRiigin,t Ediror 
Mlshanna WcnmI, NeH-s fjliiai 
Adam Taylor, Ftoluni Editor 
Nathan Dichl. Spans Editor 
Gloria dr Forli, CKief Rtporttr 
Eric Tarr, Eduanal Canoonisr 
Deddy Jong, Photo Editor 
KoUiy DcUgrangc, Copy Editor 
Uorie Reynolds, Publisher 



Mail: TheCc 

Student Union. 2101 E- Coliseum Blvd., Fbn Communi 

Wayne. IN 46805 



&gt;t necessarily reflect the views 
its student body. A column is 



E-mail: 
TtUpho 

Editor: .1gl-65S4 
Publisher.4g|-65g5 
Ad vemsing: 481-6583 
^iI:4SI&lt;6atS 



ilupapcT@ holmes.ip[w.edu 



of The 

of IPFW. Its employees o 
solely the opinion of its ai 

The Conununicator welcomes responses from its Thi 

readers. Letters to the Editor and giKSt columns must be Ihe right 
signed, dated and accompanied by a current, valid address, and cl. 

All submissions made via e-mail must be venficd by Coiiunui 
phone or in person. Submissions via moil or e-mail with- under an 
out this information svill not be published, ciccpl under 



board of The Communicator letcn 
submissions for length, grammar, sr 
deemed libelous by T 
edilorul board will not be publish 



Leu. 



February 15. 2001 



lllbllghts 



The Commu 



Excellent Educators Series: 

Barbara Resch:, department of music 



If one had lo aicnbe 
r then 






Rach'i c(ylc ol tuching. perluips 
"meamng [hrough movetncnl" or 
"caiaraci lutgtry for (he muiically 
impaiidT would be ippropnau. 
Rach. who has been Ihe coordina- 
tor or miisii: educaliun since 1796, 

piincrple and profetsional pracdcc. 

ci several courses in Ihc dcpan- 

denl (etchers and is editor of 
Indiana's Music Education Journal. 
In 1999, she was awarded the 
Dean's Award Tor Eicellcncc in 
Teaching by ihe School of Visual 
arid Performing Aru, 

Reich's reieatch inlrrcsl is in 
lecnagers' musical prcfcicnces. 
She has also maile presenlilions on 
brain research and develop me nl 
and [he implications bolh have for 



Resch h 



• directed nalionat 



iJirecls two choirs ai a Lutheran 
church in Fon Waytie. In these 
roles, she is able lo slay in touch 
wilh young people and understand 
currenl events m elementary edu- 

"1 think il puis me in a very 
good position lo teach teachers." 
Bcsch said. "It's importanl for piu- 
fessors of education lo slay m inti- 
mate contact wTth what's going on 
in schools- It's a real dose of reali- 
ty for me every week." 

If reality is her strong suit. 
Resch wears it well. In class, she 
has all the sophistication of the 
most eloquenl, well-read profes- 
sionals bul is down -lo- earth 
enou^ 10 share humorous anec- 
dotes about issues in education. 

As one who is influencing the 
decision-making processes of 
fulure educators, she is an eiample 
of the two strangest pillars of mod- 
em educational philosophies; she 



usks and do them we)!. Hcj 
scholastic invohementi relate back 
lo sttidcnts. from both thi 
tor's and young person's perspec- 
tives. "An important pan of leach- 
ing is finding oul what's going on 
with students." Resch said. She 
advises all music education majors 
and the student chapter of Ihe. 
Music Education National 
Conference- She also cooidi 
any courses laught by associ 
' cully She follows u 



ed throughout ihe semes 

In class, she requir 
10 aclively participate in the learn- 
ing process, "because stuitents 
learn more effectively when Ihey 
teach themselves- Members of one 
class say ihey like student presen- 
tations and learn from watching 
each other." 

Most remarkable about Resch 
is that she is able to handle many 



lun 
IPFW's 



up to dale with slat 
accreditation standards. 

For someone who does 
much, her composure aj 
ing altitude lo students 
ing. Resch 's support of and 
agemcnl to students is L 
example any future educaii 
this riation — could hope foi 



Edilnr's Note: Articles Includa 

Ediiculort Seriei may or maj 

hx'iiilen by mtmbers of Vie Cot, 

Submiisions Jwm iliidcnii are encouraged and profenort being featured. 

welcomed, wilh ihe understanding that any and ft, ' 

all conlrihulions lo this column will be wrillen is lo preveni conjiicis oj miere. 

nnonymouily, Tl\e purpose of ibis series is lo and ibe teachers ibey praise. 



of iheir siadenls. 
■s wholly on the 



lymoo! publication of these aniclcs 



Id like lo conlribule lo ihii se 




I Thank \ou Photo by DoOdy Jong, PItolo EMo. 

,1 Educa'iors Barbara Resch is the coordinator ol music al 
IPRM. 



To the editor: 


youth. 


Dr May is an extremely intelli- 


Ediliir-s nau:: 








gent person, flc is well -published and 








students for many awards, local and 


prescnis his research findings al con- 






being noticed in ihe "Eicclieni 


national, including Who's Who, cnmi- 


ference! across the country. His strict 


normally are noi published. In ihu 






nal justice honor societies and many 


atiitude in the classroom cannot hide 






biography depicted last week goes 


others. He guides many studenLs in 


his advocacy for students. Beyond 


wrole litis article requested aiiouyniiiy 




above and beyond Ihc cipectations of d 


research and is tireless in his efforts lo 


being an exemplary, selfless professor. 






normal profcisor, there is much more 


help his students succeed- Outside the 


I will remember David May as being a 






to David May Last semcsfer. he volun- 


IPFW arena, Di- May is aclively 


friend and a mentor. 






teered his lime to leach a class, which 


involved with die American Red Cross 








fDCililalcd mentors lo area at-risk 


and Ihc Air National Guard. 


Appreciative student 







On campus resource profile and review: The Writing Center 



Who: The Writing Center 


topic, developing a research plan. 


and practice. "Out staff members rep- 




organizing a draft, revising lo clearly 


resent various disciplines. Current con- 




articutatc a complex position and 






learning how to edit and proofread 




Where: Kcltlcr Hall 234 


their own work. 


sociology and Women's Studies," 


Conlncl: Carol Roberts (for infoima- 


•Online consultations: Students also 


Roberts said. -This means that consult- 


tion only) 


can receive writing help online by 


ant have the thcorclical and practical 




accessing the wcbsile at 




Phone: J8I.602B (Direcior); -181-5740 


w ww.ip f w.cd u'engl/wchome .h tm . 


papers for firsl-year composition, as 








www. ipfw.edu/engl/wchomchlm 


•Other services: Interactive writing- 






workshops for students, faculty and 


OutlDok/Prospccls for Ihe Fulure: 






i any Ml 



Hour?!: Sunday 1-5 p.m., Monday and 
Tuesday 9-5 p.m.; Wednesday and 
Thursday 10.7 p.m.; Friday 9-1 p.m. 

•Students can make three appoint- 
mcnls per week by signing on the 
schedule sheet outside Kettlcr 234, 

Services and benefits In students: 
The Writing Center offers free individ- 
ual, gmup or online wTiling consulta- 
tions. The Writing Center's goal is to 
cncoumge and enable students and fac- 



nall d 



riplini 



successfully in writing. 

•Consuluiions: In consultations, stu. 
dents have the opportunity to discuss 
ways to produce and improve their 
writing. According to Writing Center 
Director Carol Roberts. "Students can 
talk with Writing Center staff al all 
stages of the writing piocess: under- 
standing the assignment, narrowing a 



staff; 

-March 19 from 12-1 p.m. and Mar^:! 
20 from 3-4 p.m. (same workshop, dif- 
ferent day): "What your computer 
doesn't know about grammar." 
-In April, TEA: "Style; Shaping criti- 
cal thinking into powerful' writing," 
-Writing workshops for faculty: March 
27 from 1:30-2:45 p.m. and March 28 
from 10-11:15 a.m. (same workshop, 
different day): In conjunction with 
CELT (Center for the Enhancement of 
Learning and Teaching), Roberts will 
present "Responding to and evaluating 
writing" to faculty of all disciplines. 
The workshop will include discussing 
strategics for motivating students to 
make meaningful revisions and meth- 
cxls for evaluating student writing, 
based on significani criteria. 

Special features: Writing Center con- 
sultants are undergraduates, graduates 
and faculty who study UTiling theory 



The Writing Cen 

i by d 






aching o, 






for students and ofTering 
additional Consulting hours and work- 
shops to address students' writing con- 
cems. The Center is seeking students 
with sliong writing and interpersonal 
skills to apply for consultonl positions. 
Applications ore available in Ketllei 
234. 

Ncctts of the Department: In order to 
broaden and diversify The Writing 
Center, its administralion is investigat- 
ing ways m eipand its sources of 
funding. 



"The Writing Center is designed 
for students' convenience. Tlie Writing 
Center is located on die second floor of 
Kettlcr Hall and offers time 



schedule. Counselors arc available (or 
almost every subject area and academ- 
ic level of writing. These simple facts 
arc important lo the Center's success, 
but 1 want to convey my real reason for 
promoting Ihe Writing Center, By 
working with these people. 1 developol 
a style of writing Ihat I can use for all 
my academic writing needs. The fol- 
lownig story is my persona^ (expres- 
sion) of gratitude to die Wnting Center, 
Writing has always frightened 
me. and when 1 returned lo college, I 
knew that developing writing skills 
would be my toughest hurdle. When 1 
signed up for my first session at the 
Center. I was expecting some help wilh 
grammar and punctuation. I have 
received so much more. The personnel 
at the Center coached me through 
every stage of writing my papers. I use 
the teim "coached' because a coach's 
job is to develop a player's skills. Their 
motto, 'Every writer needs a reader," 
fits Ihe Center so well. The sludenis are 
writers, and personally, it feels won- 
derful. I was a little surprised, but 
pleased, that ihc Center's services are 
FREE. However. 1 can understand how 
it would be difficult to charge for 
something thai is priceless. To all the 
people at ihe Writing Center, you are 
the greatestlir 



Another great loss to 
the community 



vide this type of support. The Writing 
Center, like Traditional Studies, is a 
life raft for students traversing their 
first or final years of college. 
Interestingly, faculty ore also provided 
free and appropriate assisiance. 
StudenLs should come prepared for 
counseling: do not expect assistants to 
lake over as uskmasters of vmting 
assignrnents. 

As widi other intefleclual endeav- 
ors, the Writing Center staff and ils 
counsclces ore engaged in dynamic, 
learning. Thot is, the inti- 
. inlerpersanal nature of counsel- 
cssions and workshops necessari- 
vile Ihe sharing of ideas wilh oth- 
-from counselor to counselee and 



The Center is a hallmark of this 
university's commitment to students 
specilically and free thought more gen- 
erally, and ought to be publicly and pri- 
vately supported with at least as much 
fervor and interest as is shown in vari- 
ous forms of popular entertainment. 

Self-eipression. especially writ- 
ten, is foundational to die building and 
preservation of civil society. The 
Writing Center serves a need that 
directly relates lo interpersonal and 
social harmony. Please give them your 
support. 






fhe value of but one human life is so sacred and plex. 
nsc that human hands could never measure it. The pled 
1 which Reverend Bishop Jesse Whi 



;eafth 






ic of his consistent, persistent and princi- 

in the community, this nation and world. 

ui of great honor, charisma and inlegrity. A 

person who knew Rev. White described him as very 

Il IS difficult to let go of a person whose life was 
dedicated to Ihe belterment of others'. More important- 
ly, it is impossible to forgei people like White, whose 
character and ideals are so courageous and dynamic 



ic leader whose love for God 
permeated die various octivities of which he was a parL 
Rev. White was the pastor of True Love Baptist 
Church, as well as an active participant in local politics. 
He worked with odicis lo end segregation in Fort 

Wayne schools and was an advocate for equality that others arc inf 
throughout the length of his life. While our h 

White was also associated widi the Soudiem lance Rev. While 

Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), a major millions by ex teni 

lion led by Dr. King during Ihe Civil Rights comprehending t 

nl. Within the Conference, White was part of should be to even 

n Breadbasket, described by King himself as our hearts to the rational pnscesses of 

■Nonviolence al ils peak of power." (October 1966) can alter Ihe ways in which we 

Locally. While was loved by unknown thousands appnMch. just like Dr. King's, w; 

of people. This past Monday. Febmary 12. 2001. Ihe heart, as a me - " 
Reverend passed away. White was die recipient of diis Because 

year's Martin Luther King, Jr. award for exemplifying Because of hi 

'Dr. King. that he left us 

ss of Rev- While is mulii-layercd and com- a difference. 



luenccd even after theu death, 
ands cannol fully express the impor- 
made in the lives of thousands (if not 
lion), at least our hearts are capable of 
lis impacL Our mission, therefore, 
itually transfer the feelings of love in 
' ■ ' which 





=, Highlit . ^ 
Communicator is replacing the sec- 
ond of two Opinions pages which 
have run m the past Highlights is a 
bridge between Opinions and 
Features, as ils regular columns are 
Opinionated feature articles on peo- 
ple and departments at IPFW, 

The Eiccllcni Educators 
Scries, On -campus Profiles and Series. 
Reviews and Student Success 



Highlights onicles should b 
considered as expositions, rathe 
dian invesiigations. Students ar 
welcome lo send in remarks al 

:hers for die Excellent Educators arc the opinions of 
and the managing et 



Writers needed to cover 
Student government 
meetings and events. 

*Applicanls must not be affiliated with 

student government. 
* Newswriting experience a plus but not 

necessary. Will train. 
* This is an excelleni starling point for student 
writers, which may lead to a paid position. 



Features 

Film Shorts: Seconds just as good as firsts for Hopkins 



In lhi&gt; tequel lo "Silence 
□fihe Lambs." Hannibil Lccler 
iava up ihc moji homfying of 

STORYLINE; 

In "Hannibal," we calch 
up wilh [he major pisycts from 
the luL movie about len years 
Ijicr Lccler. pliycd again by 
Anthony Hap bins, his uken 
Ihc lailtcn yejiis off, his "'-'--- 






lafler 



luiifm OS lie pun II. Dui aiicr 
being discovered by local law 
officials al hii hideaway in 
Florence. Ilaly, where he was 
living OS )hc curator of an act 
museum, he soon makes his 
return to the Unlled Stales to 
cieate mure mayhem. Clarice 




between gelling hassted by the 
FBI and being used as a pawn 
by Hannibal, is well as trying 
la kcq) Hannibal fmm being 
captured by his only surviving 
former paucnl. who will smp al 
nothing to have Hannibal ai his 

ACTING; 

I think that il goes withou 
saying thai Hopkins is as icrri 
fyingly briltiont as he u-as ii 
"The Silence of the Lambs. 
Although he evokes less sym 



Moore pla&gt;s her pan well. 


Though the 




but Starling isn't is much of a 


piciure WIS far f 




central chiiacier in this mo\ne 






One almosi wondem if others 






could have done the job beitet 


least once or tw 




Gary Oldman plays Mison 


m the fitui scene 


*hichismuch 


Verger, someone who is so 


more disturbing 


un anythini 








niiable. as well as can be 






expected. 


RATING: 





more of his 
handiwork, he still keeps the 



DIRECTING: 

Ridley Scon seems to gear 
this movie more lowards the 
horror genre than Jonathan 
Demme ditl in "Silence of the 
Lambs," homver, he docs an 
admirable job of letting the 
actors play their pans without 

icting from the i 



and those who liked 'Sile 






ic gags. 



ally the sequel lo The Si 



Religions of the East course 
makes a campus comeback 



Acourse thai has not been 
offeted al IPFW in over ten 
years is making its way back 
into the cuciiculum for the fall 
2001 semester. Religions of the 
East will be offered to students 
this coming fall. 

The reason for the disap- 
pearance of this course is due to 
t of a staff member qual- 



ified to lake o 
TTic 



the challcn. 



« also suffered from 
low enrollment the last time 
around. With the help of associ- 
ate faculty member Michael 
Spjih, the philosophy depart- 
ment is confident that there will 
be high interest in the new 
orieiing. 

According to Clark Duller, 
chair of the philosophy depart- 
ment, the couise will focus 
largely on the practices of 
Hinduism and Buddhism, as 
well as Ihe philosophy of these 
two eastern religions. The topics 
of eastern mysticism and medl- 



Spalh is a full time pnjfcs- 
soi of religion at St. Francis 
Univeisily in Fort Wayne. He 
has a Ph.D. in religion from St. 
Louis Univetsity, This will be 
his First lime teaching al IPFW. 

All religion courses at 
IPFW arc offered through the 
philosophy department. 
Currently there is a course 
offered on Western religion.', 
but the Eastern course had dis- 
appeared from the catalog 



The admii 
IPFW urged the philosophy 
department to do something 
after realizing this absence. 
According lo Butler, he was 

members and said he would do 
his best to find a qualified 
instructor. 

Butter was able to make 
the connection after Spath 
called him, a.sking about a pan 
time position on our campus. 
Spalh's degree, combined with 
his experience of living in the 
Middle East for two ycais. made 



Spath will present a very unbi- 

Easlem religions. He presents 
information from an academic 
slandpoint and docs not push his 
own pcrsonol views According 
to Butler, this is a very positive 
atlhbule. in addition io Spath's 
knowledge of the Arabic 
language. 

Religions of the East. 
PHO. 330. will be offered in the 
fall on Monday nights from 6 lo 
B:d5 p.m. in Ketiler G29. There 
are no prerequisites for this 
course, although sophomore 
Standing is preferred. 

Butler I's currently taking 
measures to get this course on 
Ihc list for Area IV Humanistic 
Thought requirements for arts 
and science majors at IPf^V 
The philosophy deportmenl %s 
trying lo create a trend of 
Eastern religion coufics. There 
ill also be a course focusing 



spring of 2002. 






d'^^Z^^ See 

WJia^ Maizes TJi 

Si^^lef 



'T^^SL^ita, 




We do Mondays like no place else. Enjoy a 

double order of fajlias (enough for iwo) for 

Jusi mi* And a lOoz. mug of Top Shelf 

Margariia af on^ 42.* 

di§k 

**. WAXNe *■« 

3 1 7 E. Coliseum Blvd. iTO GO) 

2I9.47L2979 




■1 rVwt h *i lu^ 2] 




'Hannibal" is direct- 
ed by Ridley Scott 
and stars Anthony 

Hopkins and 

Julianne Moore. 

**•* 



Get Your Degree Tuition Free 

100% FREE STATE COLLEGE TUITION 

Up 10 58000." CASH Bonus 

Plus 
Monigomerj- Gf Bill 

Paid Tei;hnical Training and Experience 
Attend School Full Time/Work Pan-time 
Coniinuc your educalion ai your own pace 
Career Direciion and Advani;cment iSniA^'^ 

Part-lime Employment/Extra SS P ^^n VnU 

Much. Much MORE lE5ftgn| CM4 

In the Rrrny Rational Guard YOU CflR! 



Fori Wayne (North) 
(219) 490-2764 
(219) 490-1506 

Fort Wayne (South) 
(219) 459-7771 
(219) 432-7724 



Bluffton Hunlinglon 

(219) 824-5630 (219) 356-0518 

Angola Warsaw 

(219) 665-2535 (219) 269-4520 



IPFW 



.,^ Campus 
£ Calendar 



for Feb. 16-28,2001 



16 SfaodWcdd/n^byfederlcoGatcIa 
Lona. WT, 8 p.mj also f«b. 17. For 
Information, call the box office at 
6S5S. 

17 Salurilay Sessions at Botdcrt: 

"Music Therapy: Much More than the 
Moiart Effect,' LInda-Wrighl Bower. 
1 p.m; for Information, call 6808. 

18 IPFW Miss Gay Pageant, WU 

Ballroom, 6-9 p.m. Advance tickeu. 
S5;3tlhedoor.S7. For information, 
call 6609. 

19 Black Hlitoty Month Film Series: 

AfricaniinAmeiica.WU 116,noon- 
1 p.m.; also Feb. 26. For Information, 
call 6608. 



Testing Servicgsrfor infofmaiion. call 
6O00. 

20 College-Level E«mInation Program 

(CLEPI,Kn33,flJ0a.m. 

21 InHitutlonal SAT, KT1 23, 2 p.m. 
27 Career assessment group 

interpretation, KT 1 19, ^1:15 p.m. 

21 Engineering andTedinology 
CereerDsy.NFlOl andET.9- 
1 1 30 ajn, for infomiaiion, call 6812. 
Northeaitem Indiana Career and 
Emptoyment I NICE) Expo, Grand 
Wayne Center, 3-7 p.m,* to register, 
call Richard Baxter, 219-744-8699, 



EmploymentServiietWorfcihops: for 

infomiation, call 6595, 

21 From Fast Food to Financei How to 

Transfer your Worliplace Skills, KT 141 

noon-1 p.m. 



27 How Oo I Get into Grad School? 
KT150,2-3p,m- 

28 Learning Styles, NF B73, roon-I p.m. 
Straight Talk with School 
Corporations, WU Ballroom, 4-5 p.m. 

IPFW African Culture Week Flln». 
Cinema Center, 7 p.m, free admission, for 
information, call 6632. 
21 Women with OpenEyei (Les femmes 

aux yeux ouvens). 
28 Sankofa. 

24 Engineering, Technology, and 

Co mpuier Science open house. ET, 

lOa.m-2 p.m; for informalion. call 

5709. 

Annual 'Great Men and 

Women. ..They Made a Difference' 

Diversity Breakfast, WU Ballroom. 

8J0-10J0 am. Reservations by 

Feb. 16 to WU 1 18. For information, 

call 6604. 

Plogsterth Lecture Series: Sl Louis 

Black Repertory Company presents 

•SlaveNarrative,' WT, 8p.m.;fot 

information, call 6977. 

25 Faculty Artid Series: Masson L 

Robertson, piano, NF Recital Hall, 
2 JO p.m.; for information, call 6714. 

27 AAUW-IPFWBookDiscusslon 

Group, A Yellow Raft in Blue Water by 
MichaelE)orn5, KT 101. roon. Guests 
and brown-bag lunches welcome. For 
infbrrrtation, call 6833. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



Features 



February 15. 2001 

National Engineers Week activities include 
banquet, competitions 

ing the Sjiurdiy, Feb 24 tunqucL The 2001 anniul Robol Games it Science Cenlra]. Local 0\cr 20sctK)lanlilp miriband cccognition 

bv Pat Delanev Ciuien Engineer, selected (lom cjndidjla sub- area high schools, collejo and professional of the Cituen Enginea of the yen mil be p«e- 

Guesl Writer mined by area cngineenng societies, will also be ocganiiations will be competing tot lop honofs, scntcd al the cactnony. 

honored ai the scholarship banquet. Also on this day will be the llih annual senior The keynote speaker will he Dr. John 

high school bridge conlcM. Testing will begin al Schneider, the president of Acccm Technology 

National Engir«TS Week will be celebrated National Engineen Week activities lOa-iri a. the Engi«ering ar|d Technology bitild^ Across Indiaiu. He u an industnal lechnology 

locilly and nauonally dunnK the week of Feb 18- '"B " ^^^ Some fof these bridges will cany an pundil who left the industry to vraik (oi Purdue is 

24 Tliecelebtalion will honor engineers and ihdr Saiuiday (2/17|; To lUfl off the week, there amajing load. Competitors will vie fof S6(» in chief liaison for iponsoied research. He will 

eonutbuiions 10 society "*'" ^ ' Middle School Bridge Design ptiies. speak on a number of future icchnokigical destl- 

Mote than 40 engineenng scieniinc and Competition at Science Central- Bridges t lilt by Awards Ceremony and Banquet; opmenls that will impact the o. 

professional societies u well ^ industries and ""'"''1= "hoo'ers from popsicle sucks and 
individuals will present over S16.000 in acadcm- Elmo's glue wilt betesled. Sludenis must prereg- 
ic-based scholarships to engineering studenu d 



The banquet will be held on Saiurdiy, Feb For more information contai:! Pal DclaiKy. 

in the Walb Union Ballroom. Cost IS S20 pel Publications Commillce. National Engineers 
person. Reservations should be made by February Week in northeast Indiana. 478-S900 



Verizon Wireless 




Sports 



Men's basketball drops close one 



wlh l;32«mainin 
iheicoK (o 36-31. 



ir ihc tau half ' 
indicaiiDii. Tueiday 
Mcn'i Baskclbal[ game 
igiinsi Slim Joseph College 
wu going U) go down to Ihe 

The scoie was 30-29. 
IPFW led wi* 4: 1 1 remain- 
ing in Ihe Htsl half. IPFWs 
Dwighl Crow uorcd a layup, 
and aUci a deil by Malt 
Shephad and anolhec layrn 
by Crow, (he Dons wcie up 
3J-20. 



Sl Jouph Uien sLuud a 
quick llltle comeback- Alia 
Greg Mulln jcoied a jumpa 
and lamie Holder slole a 
pau ID go all the way In id 
icoTE on a layup, Ihe score 
W3i 36-35. 

Keion Henderson 
miued a ihol Tor Ihe Dons, 
and Si. Joseph wai playmg 
for lati shol of ibc half, hold- 
ing (he ball neaily the full 
ihol clock, bul was unable lo 



The Dons teid iloj.I&gt; 
and progressively slipped 
away, and ihey were douT by 
as many as 1 1 berorc siaging 
a comeback auempL 

Down 39-70. the Dons 
had a complele line change 
wilh 3:32 remaining- 

Afler a series of IPFW 
baskets, a baskci by Crow 
wilh 2:47 remaining brought 
Ihe Dons 



70. b 



the E 



le play 



.iircn! 



Noll 



call. 2 



charging c 

r a 61. Joseph slop and 

I per, ihey bioughL the 



« half. Dwighl Cro 
in Ihc second Mall Shcpheii 



:lo$er. drop- 
ping Ihc game by a final 
score or71-83. 

Nick Wise led scoring 
for Ihc Dons wiih 17 poinls. 
Keion Hendt 



. off Ihe bench 



Select Group Of Clogs &amp; Sandals 

SAVE 40%Sfi 




Notjociv cares more about your feet! 



FRED TOENGES 
* SHOES * 



2415Hobson Rd 

OPEN EVENINGS 

Mon - Thurs to 7pm 

Fri Id Spm • Sot. to 5pm 



BIRKENSTOCK. 



Flexible Hoiirs to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



'Q United Art and Education(^ 

■il.l.lNIJIJJ.I:IJJU:J^^JI4Ul.l:JHJ:t--« 

JOIH OUR WAREHOUSE TEAM S WORK IfJ A FRIENDLY ENVIROHHENT. 
H Work pan-line new/full-time in ihs jommcr 

■ Duticj inclodc ordtr nilinc rmckjdcs some li^ht lifUns gp le SOlbj) 

■ starting al 17.30 



Contact Mark op Tom: 

(219) 478-1121 Mondav-Friday 



Art and Education 



The Communicator 

is looking for a 
NEWS EDITOR. 



This paid position is a 

great way to get 

involved on campus and 

learn about IPFW. 



Please stop by 
Walb 215 
to apply. 



b 



Women's basketball wins big time 



In a game v-hcrc IPFW defense ruled and ihc 
buzzer seemed lo have its own mind and offer tis 
shots al will, the Lady Mastodon's drilled the Sainl 
Joseph College Pumss, 86-55. 

The Dons' defense dominated the Pumas ihc 
entire game and left ihem. on several ivcasions. 
sprawled on Ihe floor no« knowing what had hil Ihem. 
The Dons were much bigger and much stronger than 
their Puma counlerparls. and ihey were able lo over- 
power Ihem moslof ihe night 

Taking a 40-21 advanlage into halfiime. ihe 
Dons came out hot. as Jamie Holdennan hii a 3- 
pointer to start Ihe Dons on Ihcir second half run. 

The Dons ruled Ihe boards, gelling a -16-30 
rebounding advantage on Ihe night, including an 
amazing 17 offensive rebounds. 

IPFW shot 44 percent from ihc floor ft 
and struggled from Ihe 
ng just 7 of 1 1 free throws. They 
on 30 pel 



in ;3 puirus and 12 iclwuiali. Iiuh Reming lUo 
nearly had a double-doub'e. iomng 30 poinu aixi 9 
rebounds. Lindsay Wemu and Holderman each had 
1 6 points 10 lead the attack 

The tXins go on Ihc luad with a pair of games 
this week, lirst at The Univcrsily of Missuuri-Sami 
Louis on February 15 and Iben at Quinc&gt; Univeisily 
on February 1 7. 



Scoreboard 



Women's Basketball 

Feb 8 @ University of Indy W 67-51 

Feb 10 @ Northern Kentucky L 48-82 

Feb 13 (g) St Joseph College W 86-55 

Men's Baskeibj ill 

Feb 8 @ University of Indy L 68-82 

Feb 10 @ Northern Kentucky L 73-94 

Feb 13 @ St Joseph Coliega L 71-83 

Men's Volleyball 

Feb 10 @ Lewis University L 2-3 

Feb 11 @ Quincy University L 1 " 



BURRITOS AS BIG AS YOUR HEAD!'^ 




Fast Mexican Food! 



Marketplace of Canterbury • Next to Plere's 
5706 St. Joe Rd., Ft. Wayne • 219-485-4363 



So FREE . - 

it comes with a gift 




