
Remembering the nation's veterans 



r sympathy willi peace ; 
Day v 



On Nov. 11, 1918atemporary 
armistice was declared between 
the Allied and German forces. 

This would turn out to be the 
end of agression in World War 
1. 

One year later. President 
Woodrow Wilson declared the 
first Armistice Day with the 
words, "To us in America, the 
reflections of Armistice Day 
will be filled with gratitude... 
because of the opportunity 



In 1 
declared a Federal holiday by 
Congress, with the intent of 
honoring our soldiers of the 

As our nation's number of 
following 



Attempts were made during 
the late 1960s and 1970s to 
move the day of celebration 
for Veteran's Day to the 
fourth Monday in October 
ed, continuing to 
holiday on Nov. 
11. Gradually individual s 






fors 






honor these brave individuals. 
On June 1, 1954 President 
Eisenhower heeded the cries 
and signed legislation making 
Armistice Day, Veteran's Day. 



which have the rigln to establish 
their own holidays, separate 
from the Federal government, 
established Nov. 11 as the day 
for all veterans. 

In 1978 legislation was 
passed transferring celebration 
of Veteran's Day back to Nov. 



eleventh month. 

Indiana is home to an 
estimated 570.000 veterans, and 

T'i I loosiers have been awarded 
irn: Meil.il of Honor. 

Sadly, Veteran's Day is often 
focused on those who have 
battled and passed on in the 
name of our nation. Living 
veterans are often forgotten. 

Honor is due to the living 
veterans just as to those who 
have sacrificed their lives. 

The Communicator staff 
thanks you all. 




MEMORIAL: One of the 
many displays featured 
at the Veteran's National 
Memorial Shrine, located 
at2122 0'DayRoadin 
Fort Wayne. Centered 
in the wall is represen- 
tation of an American 
soldier from the Korean 
War. 



Cross-cultural celebration 



By Jamen Ratcliff 



the Cross Cultural i i-lehratinn held in the Walb 
Ballroom. Jeauuie Hit lenienti's (.hiss Cultural 
Psychology class organized tin- event sponsored 
b\ Main, ului ml Serenes, unit he Psychology Club. 
DiClemenii's Addiction class also participated. 
Jennifer Deffenbaugh, DiClementi's teaching 
assistant, helped keep the event well-nrganiz.ed 
and led the classes Ibis is tlir second year for 
the event after DiClementi's Cross Cultural 
Psyi hoiogy class last year started n as one of their 
ser\iee learning assignments. 

The event had 22 booths set up for college 
studentsdnd faculty to \icw a wide range ol" topics 
Topics ranged from evpet nng parents to drug 
abuse and addiction, as well as limn lis pertaining 
toi lie diversity on campus and in our u immunity. 
DiClementi stated the events purpose is to "Link 
our community and the campus." &gt; 

The event contained live booths operated by 
students in one nt the two classes of l)i( lenienti's 
that had organized the event. 

Last year the event had 12 boot lis and brought 
in a crowd of around (Unpeople I his year they 
have 20 booths and changed the time of the 
celebration Dil lenienti expected a larger crowd 
and the turnout was great. 

The list ofon-i am pus pa nit ipants at the event 
include: ihe Anthropology ( lull, I liveisequalilv. 
Diversity Council, C.lobal Christian lellowship. 




culturally new lo ihem there was a booth 
prepared with a wide range ol items hum around 
the world Ihe goal was In have the visitors guess 
where each item came Iroin and [hen compare it 
to the answers It showed a great deal how much 
stereotyping ol different items i mild he involved 
inileteniiiniiigwlien-aiimdiudii.il thinks objects 
may have originated. 

Other booths talked about issues of AIDS and 
diversity, damages ol drugs on the human body, 
misconceptions ahmit various groups and the 



the struggles ol penple with disabilities and the 
poieutial of using m-\\ technology to help them. 
There were also booths regarding individuals 
leaching and em on raging high si hool students 
lo take the next step on to college. 

The time and effort put into the booths not 
only shows the dedication the participants have- 
on sharing diversity on campus, hut also the 



■I thai gl 



t needs to be presented ii 



Photo by NAME HERE / NAM EWijifwc ommunicator.org 



DISPLAY: A global diversity table is on display at the Cross Cultural Celebration 
in the Walb Ballroom last Friday. 



is served helped bring the 
rowdin. In order in receive ii yon were required 
&gt; visit four booths Ibis gave the participants 
ii uppori units m I &lt; &gt; I V In a wide range of visitors. 



Hispanos Lmidos, International Student's DiClementi plans 

Organization, Multicultural Services, the as a way to bring die 
Psychology Club and Spulual &amp;■ Pagan Student diversity to thecamptis 



ar The messages about diversify were very clear, 

of The participants walked awav with not only a full 
nt belly, but also a mind lull ol knowledge. 



Wal-Mart documentary in Kettler 



r Eyer event is free and open to the public. Hosvever, 

. seating is limited. 

The new film is the third by the highly praised 
documentariau liobeit Gnenwald and it focuses 
on families nationwide who are being subjected 
to the whims of the retailing juggernaut. 

g of a new film Former employees and executives from Wal- 

lelkiiioth Wal-Mart Mart discuss the corporate machinery driving 
Kettle: Mall, liooni the company. Ihe filmmaker, underscoring the 

Wal-Mart: The High global impression Wal-Mart exhibits, examines 
every social and economic group to deliver his 



Cost of Low Prices svill begi 

sponsored by the Division "I 1 alior Studies Ihe message. 



One difficulty in the process of making the 
dui. u men lary was the Icar instilled in the potential 
parti, ipants by die Wal-Mart Corporation. "We 
found heartbreaking stories from people who 
svorked at Wal-Mart, but many of them svere 
just too frightened to appear on camera. We 
found businesses run out of the country, with 
CEOs svho svere terrified of talking with us on or 
off camera because of retaliation by Wal-Mart.' 
Greenwaltl said in an online introduction to the 
film at svsvw.svalmartmovie.com. 

The website offers an extensive data set (ion 



d isujssi i ig t he otic pi appall u it; si. m ist ual influence 
a Wal-Mart &lt; an have on a com mo nils Impact on 
local businesses is a prominent issue in the film. 

Small-business owners are often the most 
affected. I be inlrodui (inn ol a superstore such as 
Wal-Mart creates an adversary that homegrown 
establishments are unable to challenge. 

Cathy Mulder, an IPI'W associate prolessor in 
the Division of I abur Studies agrees, ' Wal-MarlS 
drain the local economy Communities therefore 
suffer because of Wal-Mart's presence." 

► WAL MART: Page A2 



Banquet final event for FYE in semester 



if food and 
the svorld." 

We should make tins a larger 
t culminating 



project 



for Conversati 
, and offer to svork 
svith a variety of organizations 
on campus to fund, our own 
hunger banquet," said Barb; 



diretlur 



is banquet 
is the final event in the FYE 
Conversation program this 
term. The student participants 
have not been given more than 
the most basic details about the 



eEhle.thea 
of individual support : 

Barbara Kirksvoo 
associate director c 
academic support fi 
and also runs the Supplemental 
Instruction (SI) program. 
Barbara explained hosv she 



got the idea about the hunger 
banquet saying, "Bill Bruening 
and I originally did a hunger 
banquet in our Philosophy/ 
Critical Inquiry learning 
community a year ago. I had to 
read an article about a school 
doing a hunger banquet and 
thought this would be a great 
way to get across the idea of 
privilege and inequities in the 

tiled States as svell as around 

e world," she said, 

"We invited the students to 
a breakfast I was cooking. As 
they entered the i 



i adult. The 
game goes different directions 
depending 



player makes,' 

Kirkwood explained the similar 

plan for the hunger banquet, 



had, difficulties their families 
had, deaths, etcetera. We had 
everyone take a quiz about 
hunger and poverty around the 
svorld and discovered we didn't 
know much about what was 
going on in other places." 

Carosella said regarding 
Monday's event, "Poor, middle 
and high income personas 



facilitators, 
receive meals that reflect their 
persona's income level." 



Carosella also d 

ultimate goal of the banquet. 
Representatives from the 
Community Hunger Food 
Bank were on hand to speak 
about local hunger and poverty 
issues. This provided students 
with an opportunity to get 
involved locally. 

Group discussions at the 
banquet focused on the more 
global issues regarding hunger 
and poverty. 

"Ticket holders svill sit at 
a table svith a faculty or staff 
facilitator svho svill guide the 



ipsm 



Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 
Walb Union, Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fori Wayne, IN 46805 



Newsroom: (260) 481 -6584 
Fax:(260)481-6045 
Advertising Dept.: (260) 481-6583 
E-mail: contact@lphvcommunlcator.org 



^213 






Aid sources for students broad 



•.luili'iiis .ire unable lo i 
need -based grants, the 
i-iuotir.iHcil in apply f"r 
hpi'sol financial aid. 



the Financial 
481-6820." 
discussed 

"First, for the 



process that awards a Bookstore 
Credit. The student must elect 
to use this credit through an 



Mdi 






Curd explained why the 
deadline dates are imponant. 
"If they will need parenl 



advantage of the Bookstore 
Credit. Students who have 
sufficient financial aid awards 
expenses charged to 









and he discussed Information 
about scholarships. "They 
might hove scholarships only 



IPIW campus should 

the International Services Office time 10 let parents know how 

located in Kettler Hall Room important it is to have their 

104. International students federal tax returns complete 

can also gel resources from the by March 1, 2006. They 

ctlnl'.iss Well site. Should at least have estimated 

( iircl explained about the information so the FAFSA can 

Free Application for Federal make the March 10 receipt date 

Miidi'in \nl l M Mi Ihi.uim' ii al the Federal Processor." 

i ,, ,,i ,■, I must financial Tins dale is die FA I SA filing 

aid. "All students should be deadline for funding through 

making plans mm tn eiimplcte i he State Student Assistance 

March lil.joni. Wcremminend sv\&lt; Ii students who file after 

that all students complete the this dare will still be eligible for 

I \\',\ Hi i iimiii ,dl\ ilnniigli lis Department of Education 

errors." programs. If the student lias 
questions on SSAC1 programs 



their IPFW Bursar's 

select the Bookstore Credit. 
Expenses that would be on 
the student's Bursar's account 
would include tuition, fees and. 
incidental charges, and, if living 
on-campus, IPFW Student 
Housing charges for 



remaining in financial aid funds 
after the expense charges have 
been covered. It can be up t 



Financial Aid information 
is on the OASIS section and 
to get to the page to select 
this option the student must 
select the following options 

logging onto OASIS: 1. Student 
Services and Financial Aid 
2, Financial Aid 3. My Award 
Information 4. Accept Award 
Offer by Aid Year 5. Select the 

Year 6. On the final screen 
scroll down to the box below 
the information about the 
Bookstore Credit." 



v.UIHJIJ I. 



student has remaining aid up to 
or above this amount." 

Curd reminds students of the 
need to select Bookstore Credit. 
"It is important to remember 
that this is no 



the Financial aid office. 
unused portion of the credit 
will be disbursed along with 
any other remaining financial 
aid funds after charges are 
deducted," said Curd. The 
funds will be disbursed as a 
refund check by the Bursar's 
Office. "The first Spring 2006 



434, 435 ,436 .458, 490, and 
492. Students outside these zip 
codes areas must wait until the 
first day of classes, January 9, 
2006 to pick up their financial 
aid refund checks from the 
Bursar's Office in Kettler Hall." 
Curd explained about 

ademic year, 
which starts the second week 
of August for our office hours, 
we are open Monday through 
Thursday 8 a.m. - 6 p.m. and 
on Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. when 
classes are scheduled. When 
classes are not in session then 
we close at 5 p.m. The office is 
also closed on all weekends and 
scheduled holidays. During the 
summer when classes are in 

p.m. on Monday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
Tuesday through Thursday, and 



t.t.inie 
Mnlde 



posted on the Mini's website supports Mulder's 
assertion. Findings from a study by Kenneth Stone entitled 
"Impact of the W.il Marl I'hemiineiion on Kural Communities in 
Iowa" claims that in small towns businesses lose 17.2% of total 
sales when a Wal-Mart is established nearby. The percentage is a 
much more staggering Id I".. in broader rural areas. 
Ill Grcenwald's online inirodui lion he ai 



■ film 

abstract personal and tells a story. The film is not the solution; 
that comes from the good peuplc around the country who use the 
power of demoiraiy to exercise iheii opinions, views, and activism 
in numerous ways." I lie N'l'W s ( reening is just one in a nationwide 
endeavor to acquaint the American public with the film. Following 
the film there will be a diseussion regarding the impact Wal-Mart is 
having both globally and locally in Fort Wayne. 

Fori Wayne has significant intercsi in the issues discussed in the 

film. The number olWal-Maris in the area is soon to double from 

three stores to six. According to Mulder, "All local officials from 

the film's inability Allen County, New Haven, and Fort Wayne have been personally 



invited to attend the screening Hie film Mas reaped considerable 
criticism from the Heartland-based corporation. 

A separate filmmaker, independent ofWal-Mart, has produced 
a film examining the opposite side of the argument. "Why Wal- 
Mart Works: And Why I hat Drives Some People Crazy" looks at a 
number of working I amili'esw ho liavebenel'i led I mm the company. 
Ron Galloway is the director of this film and he paid for the $80,000 
project on his own, receiving little cooperation bom the Southern 
retailer. Galloway contacted Greenwald in an attempt to set up a 
joint screening of the two films In his letter Calloway hoped for 
the same public debate as t'.reenw.ikf and Mulder, "Hopefully, we 
can launch a genuine and informed discussion about the impact 
of this company." 



"This seems to have opened many eyes to issues 
sec here in the United States and the students thought 
excellent way to experience, even in a small way, how privileged 
they are and how desperate some others are," said Kirkwood. 



lo the event. Howe\er. Barbara Kirkwood -at on the floor with 
students who picked up tickets after the first 50 student seats 
were gone. These individuals did not eat, representing die 33,000 
children who die each day 
preventable diseases. 



/ life. Some people will have a really i 



nothing at all." 

The IPFW community accepted a free will offering at the 
banquet. IPFW also has a "Stuff the Semi" event planned for this 
week diat is collecting donations (or the Food Bank. 

These events will help students recognize ihere are ways they 
can help through donations, volunteering and writing letters to 
legislators, and some may even choose a life working to help other 
people. Some may choose to help locally, while others seek out 
global opportunities. 



NEED LEGAL ADVICEP 



FREE Student Legal 
Consulting 

Sponsored by IPFW Student Government 



To schedule an appointment, 

contact the IPS6A offices 

at 481-6586 



visit us in 
Walb Union, Room 225 




4REAT FOOD, CREAT MUSK, CHEAT FUN! 

WORLD FAMOUS 
DUELING PIANO BAR 



EVERY WEDNESDAY 

QQUQG3B 



EH? 

$2&lt;&gt;o 

COVER 



EVERY THURSDAY 

BJIDOIS 
GJOBGII. 

FREE ADMISSION 
FOR ALL THE LADIES 

Gtf* $ c?v£ 

WltiColltylD 



484-9380 For Reservations 



E. Washington Or. at Coldwater Rd. • Next to the Marriott 



PLEASE RECYCLE THIS PAPER 


Campu 


s ^ 


uaiendj 


for Nov. 17-23,2005 


17 StufftheSemi: WU Circle Drive, 


19 PRAXIS: CM Lobby, 7:30 a.m. For 


9 a.m.-5 p.m. Hems needed include 


information, call 14153. 


non-perishable foods, toiletries, and 




baby items. Monetary donations 


Saturday Sessions at Mitchell Books: 


accepted and given to the American 


"Finding Kethtippecanunk: ! 


Red Cross for hurricane relief. For 


Unearthing Early Hoosier History," 


information, call 16283. 


Michael Strezewski, presenter, 




12:30p.m. Forinformalion.call 16165. 


Great American Smokeoul Block 




Party: K.T Lower Level, 10a.m.-2p.m. 


Student/Alumni Homecoming Bash: 


For information, call 1 6647. 


MemonaU uh-funi Applied Room, 




5:3O-7:30p.m. Enlenainment by 


University Religious Forum: "Harry 


Bluffed cover band. For information, 


Potter, Frodo Baggins. and Asian': 




Christianity and Fantasy Fiction," 




WU 1 14-1 16, noon. For information, 


Men's Basketball v. Lovola-Chicago 


call 16992. 


(Homecoming): Memorial Coliseum, 




8p.tn.For information, call 16643. 


Book Signing: 1980-1981 IU 




basketball team member Landon 


Alumni Awards Presentation: 


Turner, Follett's Bookstore, noon- 


Memorial Coliseum, 9: 1 5 p.m. For 


2 p.m. 


information, call 16807. 


Student/Alumni Homecoming Hog 


2 1 First Year Experience: Discussion of 


Roast and Bonfire: GC. 5-8 p.m. 


hunger and poverty, K.T 120, noon. 


Basement What?, bonfire, and 


For information, call 16881. 


pumpkin smashing following the hog 






Percussion Ensemble: NF Recital 


16807. 


Hall, 7:30 p.m.; free admission for 




IPFW students with ID. For 


18 Blueand White Dav: Show your 


information, call 16714. 


IPFW Mastodon pride by wearing 




school colors. 


22 Thanksgiving Recess: Begins after 




last class. Classes resume Nov. 28. 


Senior B.F. A. Exhibit Opening 




Reception, VCD: VA Gallery, 6-8 p.m.; 


IPFW "Mini" Dinner Series: "David 


continues through Dec. 30. For 


and Dorothy s Bit; Fat Italian Dinner," 


information, call 16709. 


Courtyard by Marriott. 4 p.m.; S 1 per 




person. Fortickets, call 16562. 


Open Mic Poetry Night: WU 




Cafeteria, 7-1 1 p.m. Open to the 


23 Spanish Table: WU Cafeferia, noon; 


public; light refreshments served; 


bring a sack lunch. An opportunity to 


"freestyle" raffle. lor information, 


meet informally with the express 


call 16608. 


purpose of speaking Spanish. For 




information, call 16689 ore-mail 


Opera Ensemble: "Sid the Serpent 


confortm@ipfw.edu. 


Who Wanted to Sing," NF Recital 




Hall, 7:30 p.m.; also Nov. 19. Free 


Men's Basketball V.Valparaiso: 


admission for IPFW students with ID. 


Memorial Coliseum, 7 p.m. For 


For information, call 16714. 


information, call 16643. 


Homecoming Dunce: GC, 9-1 1 p.m. 




For information, call 16586. 




This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



1 50 Cent fuck 

Get Rich Or DieTryin, 
tries to replace 8 Mile 



A&amp;E 



Looking at life with a camera 



By Hilary Gaiser 

Ivj.iiser ipkvcommunkator.o 



things turned into art moving among writings, which 
add depth to each picture. In addition 10 Fear Not, the 
flower photos of Soma Cobo and Erin Smith were also 
interesting. In particular ihe flower picture of Soma's 
which reminded me of a Georgia O' Keefe painting. As I 
am unfamiliar with many ol tin- photography techniques 



to both IPFW students, members of the faculty and the 
general public. I lie building holds tin; classrooms studios 
and the computer labs lor students of die arts and also 
contains a small gallery. 

The current exhibit life through The Lens: An 
Alumni Perspective was displayed October 7th, through 
November llth. hours are Monday through Friday from 
8 a.m. to 9 p.m., Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. For a small gallery, the visual art building holds a 
lot of potential. Earlier in the year, the gallery housed an 
exhibit of paintings by Kyla Kethcart entitled Out Of The 
Ordinary. The current exhibit showcases photography 
from alumni showing various aspects of life and images 
of everyday objects. 

One of my particular favorites was a book of black and 
white photography called Fear Not: Venture to Inner 
Peace by John Savage In his book images of everyday 



' equally 



i Polaroid silk t 
elements of photography manipulation 

intriguing. 

By far my most favorite picture of the exhibit would 
have been Goose Lake by &lt; hristopher Crawford, a simple 



the water fishing with family. 

I encourage students to take a look even if It is 
only between classes. As a small exhibit it will offer a short 
break from the daily grind of classes and something a bit 
more mentally stimulating than munching on vending 
machine snacks while watching people amble to class 
through Kettler Hall. And for all the poor college students 
out there, admission is free Some upcoming events for 



H.I- A. exhibit this spring. 




■ ^1 



ABOVE: The New Orleans Cemetery was captured by Jim Gabbard. 
It is a close-crop perspective of the cemetart taken to give another 
view of an otherwise mundane scene. 



Left: Basking in the pictures peacful tranquility, Goose Lake by 
Christopher Crawford offers the possibility of mental imagery to 
the beholder. The simple imagery offered by the entire exhibit of- 
fers views into the artistic world of natural photography. 



Default rocks Piere's 



DEFAULT: Bassist Dave 
Benedict performs a 
song off their new 
album "One Thing Re- 



BELOW: Guitarist Jeremy 
Hora radiates musical 
energy as Dallas Paige 
belts out lyrics to the 
song "Count On Me." 

CENTER: Founding mem- 
ber and drummer Danny 
Craig. 

BELOW RIGHT: At the 
urging of both Jeremy 
Hora and Danny Craig, 
Dallas Smith joined tine 
band. 

UPPER RIGHT: Dallas 
Smith and Jeremy Hora 
liven up the atmosphere 
at Pierre's Entertain- 
ment Center. 



Imabbit'^ipfwcommunkator.org 




On Saturday. Xnvemeher 12. 2005 the 
rock band Detail It pla\ed a set of songs at 
Pierre's Entertainment l. enter. Part regular 
show, part album send off, Defualt kicked 



Naked. 

Default's debut album, "The Fallout" 
from TVT Records achieved both platinum 
status in both Canada and the U.S. 

'solid 1 1\ ing i hen i as a major headlining act. 



from the band's norm. The two 

stand out tracks are "Count On Me" and "All 
Is Forgiven." 








"Get Rich or Die Tryin'" dies early on 



Film Review 




t, however, i 
ulete wasie of time I had expected. Now, by 

eans, am I saying that this movie was good, 
im I saying it's bad. It falls perfectly into 
it-was-jusi-OK" category. It begins with .1 

(it's actually the 50 Cent song "I'll Whip Ya 
1 Boy") blaring and, oh, I do mean blaring. 



ablishment owned by a rival Columbian gang. 

goes on without a hitch. ..sort of. Marcus. 

.1 k.a. Young Caesar (fill Cent's charattcrl, gels 

the mouth even— in front of Ins grandmother's 
house in Queens. iSound familiar? 

It should; that's ivh.it really happened to 
50 Cent.) As he (we're back to talking aboui 
Marcus) lays in the slrcct. Needing prnlusely, 
he takes us through his childhood and telis 
his story in past tense until we're back to his 
impending death. Mir.u uluuslv. Young Caesar 
blows off the Grim Reaper, has a change of 
hi. if 1. and goes on to be a rap star it reminded 
me of "H Mile." only with a loi inure Rims and 
drugs far from a horrible plot, if not a bit 
over played. The acting, well, ihe acting was 
inih s[i, ; |]ilv better than acceptable. 50 Cent 



every third word h got very irritating, i'he young 
actor that played Marcus as a boy. Marc lohn 
Jefferics. was a relatively pleasant break from 
the "only-slightlvlaughable-ai ting" mediocrity. 
Jcfferies is the fifteen-year-old with a shocking 
resume (including "Spider-Man 2") that, single 
ndedly, managed to bring heart and depth 1 



I have yet to see a portraval b\ Howard that 
I didn't like. He is. without a doubt, one of the 
most intense actors 1 have ever had the pleasure 
ot watching. Sadly, however, not alt the acting 
was that good. Joy Bryant ("The Skeleton Key") 
was satisfactory when she was alone; but putting 
50 and her together was .1 big mistake. There was 
absolutely no chemistry. Every single moment 
they were tin screen, whether they were talking or 
kissing, tell awkward and forced Not good when 
they were supposed to be an item. Then there 
was the gangster "god" the calls himself thai), 
levar. played by Hill Duke Duke is a man with 
an astonishing resume lie's done everything 
Iron) directing to acting to producing to writing. 
loo bad his portrayal of levar was ridiculous i 
think lie was trying to channel Marlon Brandt's 
Godfather Hut. whatever he was doing, he tailed 
miserahlv lie was terrible Some of (he camera 
work was fresh and inventive. In the beginning. 
wtien the music is blasting, we (the audience! 
see the landscape through a vibrating rearview 
mirror — very cool. Some of the editing was good. 
loo. For example, when Marcus is dying, we're 



thrown back to when he was being born. So, 

as his grandmother is screaming in die present. 
we hear his mother screaming in ihe past. The 
music wasn't awful either. It's a litde difficult 
for me, however, as I'm not a big rap fan. But 
I can say when the right music is chosen, and 
they definitely hit the mark lot "Get Rich or Die 
Tryin'"— even if it did comprise much of 50's own 
collection. 

I'm willing to look ovet his shameless self-plug, 
because if I weren't, ihere'd have been no way I 
could've stayed for the whole movie. It was. after 
all, a two-and-a-half hour self-plug. Overall, it 
wasn't a horrible experience; just mildlv irksome 



Cinematography ® ® ( 



Plot ® ® 



Acting ® (X: 



Casting ® ( 



Overall i 



Aniston sparkles once again in "Derailed 



Film Review 



1 tlu lys- ifjiwconimunicator.org 



job. I mee 



, honestly. I g 



1 I truly love my 



Jll 



them. How could 1 

sweeter? I'll lell you how. ..by seeing a film that 
is enjoyable I ookiug rivet 1 olimins from the last 
couple weeks it became clear to me that I haven't 
liked much of anything. Save a select few— you 
know what they are— I've been bombarded by 
laiklustet performances from the mystical and 
magical world of Hollywood. 

But, in an endless landscape of carnations, 
every now and again, a luscious and tempting 
orchid emerges Iliai on hid is Derailed." OK, 
so maybe that's a bit intense, but so is the 
movie. There are so many aspects of this film 



more experienced actors can't even accomplish 
Even in her fluffier roles (e.g. "Bruce Almighty" 
and "Along Came fully ';, she gives her characters 
depth ami dimension. Hut we're not talking ahum 
her fluff-roles, now are we? No, we're talking 
about a role that is enveloped in vulnerability. 
lust, deceit and murder. Her actions in this 
film were surprising to say the least. As I was 
watching her, I gasped— as did the rest of the 
1 she reveals her true self. (I'm 
asers this week!) Owen, the film's 
s far from disappointing 



(it course, I 
yet-hard -c 



1 hair biased. I .1 



goodness— because it u were. I would have gone 
into fits of hysterical laughter Word to the wise, 
X, stick to "Pimp My Hide." I enjoy inventive 
cinematography as much as the next person. 
However, there are times when less is more. 
That's how it is for "Derailed." No fancy camera 
work here (excepl for a couple of scenes); just 
simple ;\m\ 1racl111011.il whuh works very well. 
The music is comprised mostly of orchestration. 
It was beautiful without being overbearing. In 
; I got so caught up. I forgot how 



nfRAiifn 



1 don't even want to tell you the plot — it 

mm Id give even tiling away. I will say 1 his (live 
Owens ( hrisropher Schine gets into a setiOUS 
predicament that requires desperate 



seen her in— "The Good Girl" is my favorite 
example — I watch to see if any of her "Rachel- 
isms" are going u&gt; rear their ugly heads. It's 
only natural. She played the role for 10 years 

and played it well I lianktullv. I have yet to be 
disappointed (So she gut a little "Rachel -y" in 
"Office Space;" she was still young.) 

Aniston continuously delivers believable ami 
ill -aim i per lor mam e— a leal thai main ot the 



really changes, but his "helpless- 
ict seems to be working to his 

advantage, lie does start out as a real coward. 
although manages to redeem himself in the end. 
The supporting cast was good, too. Melissa 
George (you know her from "The Amityville 
Horror" remake) stars as Deanna Schine, Owen's 
on-screen wife While I. at moments, questioned 
then 1 hemistry (or lack there of, really), scenes 
involving the two were far and few between. 
Ihc-y do present themselves well, however, as 
two hard-working parents trying desperately 
to provide for their Type I Diabetic teen, Amy 
iplav&lt; d by louneen-year-old newi ouier Addison 
Timlin). 

As lar as antagonists go, Philippe LaRouche 
(portrayed In [tench actor Vincent Cassel) 



influencing my e 

big fan of Overall. I really liked this movie. It wi 

well-acted and well-shot. Isayg 



supposed 



He i 






—slum, sneaky, cruel , 



1 guy 



IIVaSHB 

Cinematography &lt;. 



Plot ® ® ® ® 



Acting ® ® ® ® 



Musical Score (X) @ 



Casting ® ® @ ® 



Overall © ® @ ® 



Ground breaking for music building a success 

■ Wartell, Jischke break ground on sight of new Visual Arts Building, construction continues admist quaint ceremony 






e of the work that helped 
nversation with former state 
t having a music building or a 



IPFW ol'fii lallv broke ground toi its new mush building 
on Tuesday. November I at l J:Cltl am The new structure is being 
built on the grassy lawn between ( .ales Sports Center and Williams 
Theater. Construction is expected to last until 2007. 

Speakers at Tuesday's ceremony included IPFW 
Chancellor Michael Wartell, Purdue University President Martin 
Jischke. IPFW Dean of Visual and Performing Arts Benjamin 
Christy, Robert Rem. i hair ot the Musk Department, and Richard 
Stump, Associate Principal at Sthetikcl Schullz. The ceremony 



"(The) spirit of a people is found 
of IPFW." 

Wartell highlighted so: 
create the building. During a ( 
representative Bob Alderman abc 

medical budding Alderman said, ' 
"And it worked, " Wartell s.iid thanking the si, ue of Indiana and the 
legislators present, including Dennis t rinse. Winn Moses, Phyllis 
Pond, and Hen Giaquinta. lot their efforts. 

Wartell also recognized the private donors to the new 
music building. These included lone Auer, the English Bonther 
Mitchell Foundation, and Ruth N. Rhinehart and family. Auer was 
not present, but Wartell said that at 102, she had a right to choose 



this is ihe spirit departm 
departm 

the Fort Wayne Community Band, the Unity Performing Arts. 
and the Choral Union. "(We) look forward to graduate programs 



a included the music ol the ll'RV Symphoi 
conducted by Gregg Gausline. 

The ceremony opened as Wartell thank 
mentioned thai' mills building will he amodel for n 



urdue President lischkc described the "creative an 
, partnership" that made this new building possibl 
ended the partnership between generous donors an 
jovernment in their push to forward higher educatioi 



Following a bri 
Ensemble, Dean Christy described i 

with dedie .tied la. ulty . ununified to success Students are in an 
onors and arts rich area.'' lie also described the partnership ihe department 
education holds with nonprofit organizations and talked of departmental 

growth, mentioning that the music department has grown more 



education," he said of the future for the 
department "Possibilities are nearly endless." 

Richard Slump, representative for Sthenkel Schultz. 
described some of the details of ihe new building It "will probably 
be one of the largest on campus" with pan of die building 50 feet 
high and a square footage ol I "ni.nnu feet. The eastern elevation 
windows will look like a musical si ale And the recital hall "will be 
perfectly tuned for the department" with acoustics engineered by 
Kierkegaard. 

The ceremony closed as the speakers and legislators broke- 
ground. Audience members were excited about the new home for 
the music department State Representative Ben Giaquinta was 
especially interested in the building .mA ihe possibilities it holds. 
"My children and grandchildren are heavily involved in music SO 
I'm happy to he involved with this project." 



r department in the p 

rman Bean spoke of the past, present and future 
of the department, from it's beginning in 1967 to the current 
growth to its own building. He mentioned the certifications the 



"Hick-Hop" new experiment and whole new genre 



State Of The Arts 



Recently, 1 have discovered a 
'.. Now granted, 1 have come 

c rock mainly, but I delved 



genre in the country 
S raised on classic rock mainly, Inn I delved into oilier 

I had a punk phase, in which I wore Salvation Army pants. 

leather jackets and the whole tiling 1 had an I MO phase in which 
I became horribly depressed and emailed my angst -ridden poems 
to all my friends 

I had a hardcore rap phase in which 1 drove around in my Buick 
USabre. bumping to anything from Higgle, Nelly, to N.WA Alas. 
I did come into my own. i grasped onto my own music that I liked 
to listen to, that being classic rock, I delved into var 
classk music. Ix-d Zeppelin, Cream, Bruce Springstt 



s tortus ot 



But r 



recently I have delved n 
i Matted ivith Willie is 



n Willie Nelson about two years ago. Then it gradually 



grew into people like Wavlnn Jennings, Johnny Cash and Hank 
Williams • the classic guys. Ilien ii graduated into Alan Jackson, 
Garth Brooks and othet early ,uk1 Luc- nineties people. But alas, the 
times caught up with me and now I dig people like Kenny Chesney, 
Dierks Bentley, Big and Rich and other people And now, I have 
latched on to a new guy lh is hoinhre is the archetype of inner- 
city country, also known affectionately as "hick hop," This man is 
Cowboy Troy. 

Although his name sounds like ii was pulled from a pom 
movie. Cowboy Troy has officially become one of my favorite 
country stars. He tours with Big And Rich, another great country 
duo, and I have been completely sold on it. 

Now granted 1 am not a country boy by any way, shape or 
form, but 1 can appreciate dec en i songs about partying and living 
life to its fullest and, well, NASCAR. As I was scrolling through 
the different sounds on iTuncs I came across him and the rest is 
history. 

I think it's great that someone has blended hip-hop and 
country. When ymi think aboui it, they are two ol the most archaic 
forms of music in the American heritage. Due based off of jazz, 
the other based ol'l'oi blue-grass Roth with roots in ihe blues, it's a 
beautiful thing. 

The song that got me sold was "I Play Chicken With The 
Train." The combination of freestyle rap about a country bar and 



i tie people who attend if make the ■ 
Plus the addition of Big and Rich 
rapping. It's hilarious almost. 

Ok, my Final thoughts. Ibis isn't a review of any kind. It's 
more of a confession I like country. I like it a lot; it brings me great 
happiness to listen to. I have heard sad songs, and drunken songs, 
but most of them are happy. I hey lell great stories and whether 
tliev !o~e the girls or they gain a friend it's always happy. 

I think country has gone downhill |usia wee bit with some of the 
older guys trying to In- like- the young ones, hut i hey just can't sing 
about the same stuff I hey cannot look at anything with the same 
eyes, it just doesn't work. But that's what it's all about I guess. 

Lastly, country does for me what I guess jazz or classical 
does for some people. It relaxes me, helps me think and spins me 
a tale of someone, much like myself, possibly a loner who goes 
about life the best he can. lie has no expectations of anything. 

I like how they talk about the good things in lite- friends, beer. 
sports and other backbones of American culture. I encourage 
anyone to grasp onto a country singer that you like and listen 
to what they have to say. No matter what your preferences are, I 
guarantee thai one day you'll dig what you hear. I don't usually 
endorse music with a llacul gamaotee. but I will with this stuff. 
Country music, I think, is the most fun that anyone can have with 
their clothes on. 






Holiday movie preview 2005 



By Tiffany Dirig 

I i rig © i p fw co m m u n i cat o t. o r 



Mud.aine. Mark KulT.iUi. Mvii.i Miviu i mul kivin Custner.thisi 
sure to make me giggle. Heck. I chuckled while I watched the 
trailed Plus, two nt my kivoriii' men, George ("loouey and Steven 



Henry Fonda and lunik li.ill link. 11k- movie's about a widow 
(Russo) and widower K.hui.l) thai meet, tall in love, marry and try 
!o meld their 10 anil eiejtl eliiliheii respectively into one, happy 
family. It may have worked tor the original. Inn this one looks like 
"The Brady Bunch" ami "Cheaper by the Do/en" (1 and 2} shoved 



I've done it again I've |iin together a list of 111 movies coming 
out this winter season Now, unlike ic predecessor, the Fall Movie 
Preview, this one is a bit ditlereni Rather than putting them in 
chronological order, I am listing to them by genre — two for each, 
one good, one bad. Please keep in mind ili.it this is solely my own 
opinion. I have not read a single review regarding any of the films. 
1 may have viewed the trailer, but other than that, 1 am passing 
judgment based purely on the premise o| (he lilm...and maybe 
who is in it. I realize that it is -lighilv unkind m judge a movie like 
this, but we do it all the time. I mean, that's how we decide what 
we want to see and what we don't, right? So, with that in mind, 
here's the list. 

First off are the movies in the action genre: King Kong" (Dec. 
14) and "Running Scared" (Jan. 6). Peter Jackson's "Kiiir Kong'' has 
kept me thinking At lirst.wheii I -aw the trailer, I was totally against 
it. Merian C.Cooper's and ! ruesi B, Sthoedask's 19X! original is a 
classic. History has shown thai it's dangerous to remake a classic 
(e.g. the 2002 TV version of "Carrie"). However, at a recent tripto 
the movies, I watched an in-depth documentary on the film and 
became very intrigued. The plmliue is preiiy much the same as 
the original - a crew goes in the mvsieriou- Skull Island and finds 
a massive gorilla thai lalls in hue with the beautiful Ann Darrow. 
It stars Naomi Watts as Darrow, Atlricn Brody as lack Driscolt and 
Jack Black (a weak casting, il you ask met as Carl Denham. 



a-stinker "Running Scared." I'm sorry, but I really don't like Paul 
Walker. He's just noi any good It's about a low-level mob gofer, 
Joey Gazelle (Walkerl, who's sole purpose in life is to dispose of 
"hot" guns. But, like the genius he apparently isn't. Gazelle hides 
them in thedrywall ol his basement It seems to be working until 
his son and son's friend catch Ui/elle red-handed. The friend then 
steals one of the guns— the one that was used to shoot a dirty cop 
(naturally) — and kills his Mepdad. I he story only goes on to get 
more twisted, leading more people to get their hands on this gun, 
making Gazelle quite a few enemies. Wow. I goi hured just typing 
that. Something telK me thai '■Running Seared'' isn'i going to be 
Walker's shot at a golden statue. On a lighter note, it's time for 
two comedies: "Rumor Has It" (Dec. 25) and "Big Momma's House 
2" (Jan. 27). Now, I cannot tell a lie, there look to be several good 

comedies premier ing in thee ing weeks, so pie king one that was 

good enough to talk about was tough at first I hen I saw "Rumor 
Has It" and thought it to be quite apropos as I just watched 
"Derailed" — a role for Jennifer \mston that is, no doubt, vastly 
different than that of her impending comedy. In Rob Reiner's 
new film, Aniston plays a woman who comes face-to-face with a 



"Big Momma's House J" seems like Martin Lawrence's desperate 
attempt to snag back some ol the money he's lost with his recent 
string of rubbish— "What's ibe Worst I hai i mild Happen," "Black 
Knight," "National Security".. .need I go on? Too bad lor him, but 
I have a sinking feeling that this isn't going io end well, either. 
Lawrence reprises his role as Malcolm Turner, a k a Big Momma. 
and goes undercover to find his e\ partner's murderer. Nia Long 
is also back (why, Nia, why!?) in her role as Sherry Pierce. New to 
this sad game, however, is Emily Procter (you know her from "CS1: 
Miami"), her first film in over six years. It's heartbreaking they felt 



the need to resurrect Big Momma; 1 wasn't ihai fond of her the first 
time around. 

There arc so many good dramaiii lilms . nming out, that I can 
barely contain myself. Bui with good- Memoirs of a Geisha" 
(Dec. 9)— comes the had— "Annapolis "(Jan. 21). The first, directed 
by the great Rob Marshall of ( hicago" lame, looks phenomenal. I 
saw the preview (he other day and il look my breath away. Like his 
previous Oscar-winning film, ■Memoirs of , ( Geisha" promises to 
be a vivid and beautiful masterpiece, lis the story of a git I. played 
by Zhang Ziyi, who is sold io a geisha house in the '30s. The head 
geisha (Gong Li) is exceptionally jealous of /i\ i's character, Chiyo, 
and lets her know ii .h every opportunity. Eventually, however, she 
is taken under the wing ol another mote famous geisha (Michelle 
Yeoh). Chiyo herself then becomes the most legendary geisha in 
the nation. All men are after her; except the one she wants (isn't 
thai always the w.iv it goes?!). 1 he film is based upon the novel of 
the same name ami look, like u will put Marshall back in the Oscar 
race. I highly doubt, however, that "Annapolis," starring James 
Franco, Tyre.se Gibson and lordana Brewster, will have the honor 
of being next to Marshall's film in the "Hesi Picture" line-up. Justa 
guess. It's the boo boo siory of a kid (Franco) from the wrong side 
of the tracks (typicall that is at cepted to the U.S. Naval Academy. 
Once he gets there, however, tie quesiions his ability. Blah, blah, 
blah. Been there, done that. With a questionable cast (Donnie 
Walhberg's back- my lavoriieb and an incredibly weak storyline, 
I can easily say that I shan't he dropping seven bucks to see this 

Keep going wiih me, bilks, I've only gol lout more to talk about 
in two more genres: family and horror/ sci-fi. 1 know that here at 
IPFW there are students that have families, so here are a couple of 
movies — "Yours. Mine and Outs'' (Nov. 211 and " I he Chronicles of 
Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" (Dec. 9)— that are 
acceptable for everyone. Unfortunately. "Yours, Mine and Ours" 
looks bad. ..just plain bad! Even though it stars big-names like 
Dennis Quaid and Rene Russo, it's a sad attempt to remake a lt)68 



as well as well-acted. Lour children [Geotgie I leniey,' William' 
Moseley. Skandar Keynes and Anna I'opplewell) are sent to live 

with an eccentric prolesMU in England's c iiryside as a means 

to keep them safe during World War 11. They then find an antique 
wardrobe that transports them to an alternate universe: Namia. 
Ihough governed by a benevolent lion (voiced by Liam Neeson), 
the white witch (Tilda Swinton) has cursed Narnia, keeping it 
eternally snowcapped Ibe children must light with the lion and 
his army to defeat lite witch and restore Narnia to its original 
splendor. Last section, last section. 1 promise; only two more to go, 
Horror /sci-fi. 1 love it. ..most ol Ibe time. Alas, however, another 
vitleo game has been brought to the big screen. 

The only video-games lurned -flicks I liked were the "Tomb 
Raider" movies— and that's only because Angelina's my favorite. 
The newest "sure-to-hnmh" movie is 'Bloodllaync" (Ian. 6). Now, 
let me say that usually I love vampire movies (you'll get a tasic of 
that in a sec), but this makes me shudder Not necessarily because 
of the plot— a vamp rape-, an UV- eeniury woman which produces 
RaynelKristannal okenl.a "dhampir" i half -I mman, hall- vampire), 
who swears to avenge her mother In killing the King of Vampires 
(Ben Kingsley, what were you thinking!?)— bin because of some 
casting choices. 

Obviously, we know how I feel about Kingsley 's decision to 
do this movie, but also included are Miihael Madsen {not bad), 
Michelle Rodriguez (still not awful}. Billy /.me (now it's going 
downhill) and Meai I oal all . redihilitv is losi m ihat single choice, 
for cryin' out loud!). I hat's ridiculous! Plus il is directed by Uwe 
Boll who did the shockingly bad movies "Alone in the Dark" and 
"House of the Dead"— both based oil video games. But to round 
out my list of winter Hicks, we end with 'Underworld: Evolution" 
(Ian. 20). I know what you're dunking, the lirsi one wasn't all that 
good. But 1 absolutely loved il. Kate lieckinsale is one helluva 
good vampire. She's hard-core and kicks a whole lot of Lycan 
(werewolves) butt! In the second installment, again directed 
by Len Wiseman, Selene tlleckinsalel ,md her half-l.ycan, half- 
vampire boyfriend (Scott Speedmaul ate on a mission to kill the 
original vampire. Bin. a new breed has been horn, so we're talking 
about a wicked-good "final battle!" I can't wait— obviously. There 
you have it... 10 movies coining out to last you through the cold 
winter months. 1 would also like io say thai if, by some freak twist 
of fate. I wind up being wtong about one or more of the movies 



Inner city rap goes underground 



Following the in no are the duo of guitars picking and 

strumming awav, leading into ihe drumbeat and then rap of 
"Papercuts." I tie song lyrically leans inwards what one would 



known and have a lot of influent e m die underground, they are 
not necessarily as popular in ibe mainstream. 

The next of the main tracks is perhaps one of the best. 



West, and the Ying Yang I win/ have invaded the a 
Internet and music television Bui what must people see are just 
theariists with the money, (lie big label and all the women. One 
easily forgets that there are still the ones who are working their 
way up the charts, or even IO the charts. 

So, for something new. here are iwo rap albums, one big and 
one small. Gangster rapper Three b Mafias The Most Known 
Unknown," and underground indie rappers Gym Class Heroes 
"The Papercut Chronicles." 

Gym Class Heroes: The Papercut Chronicles 

FALL OUT BOY. There, thai should Ye caught the attention of 
half of the IPFW campus. Along with the craze of the pop punk 
band comes their record tompanv. I ueled In Rainen. which has 
been doing very well oil with it's fresh roster of artists. Indie- 
rappers Gym Class Heroes included. 

If you've heard about the Gym Class Heroes, it wouldn't be 
surprising if whai mu heard were praises Ihe band accomplishes 
the daring experi men i at ion ot breeding rap and indie rock very 
near perfectly A lull band including a bassist, two electric guitars 
and a drum set replaces hip-hop's beats. 

Gym Class Heroes have very com mil led lans. but there is 
something that is hard to find elsewhere about their fan base - a 
healthy mixture of shaggy-haired rockers and jersey-sporting hip 
hop fans. Thus, ihe creation ol peace between rockers and hip- 
hop fans lies in the Heroes hands. 

Now before moving on, I'll let you know that although I've 
listened to my share til rap. hip bop. t runk. li&amp;H and whatever 
else, I am not par tic ul.uk updated mi the slang used to describe 
the music of the genres I hat said, let us begin the breakdown of 
the album of the hour. " The Papercut Chronicles." 

The 18-track album starts oil with "Za Intro" asking the 
listener, "Would you Itke to listen to some music?" It (hen goes on 
instructing to "release Miursell I mm the captivity" of the normal 
way of thinking. It's fair io sa\ I fiat the ha ml uses the intro to 
express their beliefs, as they alsu do in (he live show, that their 
music isn't about the money. 



One of the more popular (tacks is "Taxi Driver, 
group uses under gi mux I band names throughout the 
a siory aboui of course, a girl. Another thing 
in the "Taxi Driver' are pills, which seem io be something Gym 
Class Heroes are obsessed u itti. as tbe\ are brought up on many 
of the other tracks Io prove (his point, song eight "Pillmatic" is 
dedicated io the abuse of pills. 

"Cupid's Choke! i old, is possibly the highlight of the whole 
album. It is both radio and single-wotibv. Ii features Patrick 
Stump, who I had to google to find out is the lead vocals of Fall 
Out Boy. The sound ol the sung seems almosi vintage, as the 
vocals again describe a relationship with a member of the female 
gender. 

Musically the album is awesome, the songs all are different 
enough to make the 18 tracks, which seems m be a lot. just 
fine. After personally meeting a couple ol ihe guys from the 
band, they arc sweet dudes and are committed to (heir music 
and fans. Lyrically, although tliev locus WAY too much on the 
subjects of pills and i heir past girlfriends, ihey are very creative. 
I'd recommend lb is t_D to almost am one between the ages of 
middle school and tipper twenties. 

Except, parenis will have to watch out for ihe lovingly placed 
parental ad\ isorv logo on the allium cover. 

Three 6 Mafia- IhcMosi Known Unknown 

Rap artists must love using as mail) tracks possible on 
a compact disc. Three 6 Mafia's new record, "The Most Known 
Unknown," comes at you with a total ol 20 tracks, including what 
seems to be a new fad among hip-hop artists, skits. 

That is enough material to last most musii artists two to three 
years. The team ol gaugstas includes l)| Paul. Juicy I, Crunchy 
Black. Gangsta Boo, Lord Infamous, koopsta knicca and just 
about a million other featured artists. I hree d Mafia has been 
on the Billboard Top 200 for the past Hi weeks, and as of now is 
placed at number 19. 



ol the album, which simply means that although they are well- 



This is surely the intention of the artisis. 

Thebeais of "()on'( Violate" include a piano piece ami 
the repeiiiion of the phrase, "Uon'l viol, He me.' Itepctiliim once 
again proves to he a perlei I ineihod for making a good song. 
Other (racks dial stand out are "Side-io Side" and "Roll wiih it " 

Although ihe albino brings a lot ol original sounds, 
Utereareso many songs thai they start to run together, Three 6 
Mafia could easily be i alegoti/ed with a lol ol (he crunk artisis 
including the Vmg Vang I win/ and I il' John. Ibis genre of music- 
is relatively new m (he mainstream thus most songs seem fresh 
and original. 



Firefly 

*vt/» Coffee House 



3523 N. Anthony Blvd 
Ft Wayne. IN 46805 

2(0.373-0505 



"Meet me at the Firefly" 




Ever considered working for Hie Communicator? 

ow's Your 
ance. 

The business department at IPSN, Inc. has an immediate opening for the following position: 

Advertising Account Executive 




GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES! 



We're hiring students NOW, part-lime and FULL-TIME! 



Home City Ice 



Flexible Hours and GREAT PAY!! 

Route Delivery Positions Available 

We Offer 10-40+ Hours/Week! 

$8.00 to $12.00+ /Hour 

Great part-time hours are available and we offer schedule flexibility. Work around your 

school schedule with morning/afternoon and weekend hours. 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! 

Train in one fatality during school, and work in another during summer break! 

Schedule an interview today and bring a friend! 

CALL TODAY: 1 (800) 622-6566 



Or visit us at www.homecityice.coin to (ill out an online application! 



Managing Editor ^^^k 

Podium 


Wedrwwlay, November 16. ZOOS 



Is Allen County 
ready for a 
female sheriff? 



Staff Column 



C. I" 1 Mlrrill 'll MJt-ll I 

["here arc just a few issues she hi 
ig against her in the public's eyes. 



elected sheriff 



Looking ai the statistics from the 

Department "I lustier federal Bureau of 
Investigation website, [lie ratio of female 
to male officers in the US is 88.4% male 
to 11.6% female. 

These statistics cover the full range 



and the last of officers from I 

ity and college. 



l 193B 






the U.S. including both • 



lesbian These three things 
barriers she faces. 

When it comes m the issues of how and 
the office will be handled she seems to For the full breakdown 

d very well. fbi.gov/ucr/cius_04/law. 



Taviano has 

piihlu affairs and lias worked with both and sei 

the police ami fire departments met the pnpula 

last 24 years. I co 

Currently she has been working as female 

the i Limine, dim mi tut (lie Mien County there a 






for yourself 
s broken down by various 
ion sizes and regions, 
ild not find an exact number of 
to male sheriffs in the U.S., but 
e many firsts in the sheriff offices 



combining services 
throughout the 

As being the 



about Taviano by 
visiting her website 
and reading s 



I do not consider myself depart i 



head of the sheriff's 



a strict voter with either 
party; I usually go for the 
person I feel will best 
represent my interests. 
I feel that Taviano has a 
great record and the ex- 
perience that will add to n P} 
the position. 



reading about 
iano and finding 
what things she has 



I do not consider 
myself a strict voter 
with either party; I 
usually go for the 
person I feel will best 



her expertise for the 

position www.iaviaiinlurshenlr.iom. There 

The question then is whether Allen represent 
( ounly is ready for a leniale. Democratic, without a 
lesbian sheriff. 

I feel the very answers could be found 
by looking at a similar situation that 
laced Dallas ( ounly in Texas. 

In November of 2004 their newly 



I think it will do 

a have a female for our sheriff, but 

o see how things change in an ares 

mo has a dear mind si 



eleitedsherill wasalcruale.Deinneniik. getting things back in shape for Allen 

lesbian Latina. County. 

Backed by not only the Democratic I'm encouraged by the very thought 

Party, but also a group called the day thai we might sec a very interest me, and 

&amp; Lesbian Victory fund. I upe Valdez unfurgetiablc campaign over the next 

became the new sheriff of Dallas year. 

County. I encourage you all to take a stance 

If she can do it. then ii onlv goes to and find mil the tacts with this election 

show that Taviano has a good chance coming up. 

as well. It's been eight years since we have 

Taviano is also being supported by had a change as sheriff and when Jim 

the GLVF and you can find out more and Herman steps down I hope Tina Taviano 

make a donation if you like at hup:// is able to step up. 



&lt;C31BE^ 


&lt;3*f\ 








# 


i i 








TnCMl* 
IrM* 

&amp; 

p_snn 
■man 




bvwMCAfi 

tSSWMI 

[KitssaiOH 
















HOW IS 1HF ROVERNMFT HFI HNfi YDIIR FIHIM ?MW 





Educating America 



Staff Editorial 

Education reforms in the 
White House are as regular as a 
speeding ticket at the Indy 500. 
Rarely do you see President 
Bush going to bat for the col- 
lege student. It's a sad state of 
affairs, my friends, in which 
the 14.8 million or so college 
students in America can't rely 
on our own representative gov- 

in awhile. Can we constantly 
expect this? While we, the col- 
lege student, are trying to strive 
for an education, are going to 
keep seeing money that would 
help us go into the pockets of 



lug business? Are we going to 
let our hard-earned dollars, 
and the money that we request 
to help us further the better- 
ment of this nation, go to the 
Carnegie's and Rockefeller's of 
our time? 

The answer is no, most 
simngly and passionately. We 
are the future of this coun- 
try. We are the engineers, the 
scientists, journalists, future 
Senators and Congressman. To 
let our government throw away 
our money to up the dividends 
of Big Business is the same as 
allowing mass genocide to take 



place among the Ivy covered 
halls of academes. 

The worst thing that we could 
do as college students is to let 
our Educational Legislations go 
to file thirteen all the time. We 
must petition, we must force 
legislation to pass in the House 
and the Senate. Gone are the 
days of the government pro- 
viding solid education. It's a 
sad state of affairs, my friends, 
when the future of this nation 
cannot receive a helping hand 
from the government without 
risking bodily harm. 



r 



Notre Dame professor wonders 
if sweatshops, social thought mix 



Have something to say? 

Anything you just 
have to respond to? 



Make your voice heard. 

The editorial board of 

The Communicator wants to hear 

from you. 



letters@ipfwcommunicator.org 



Editorial Policy 



essarily reflect tl 






welcomes responses Letters to the Editor must be signed, dated 
and accompanied by a current address, telephone number and class standing/major or title 
frf applicable). Letters not meeting these requirements will not be considered tor publication. 
All submissions made via email will be verified by telephone 01 in person. Addresses and 
telephone numbers will not be published. 

Submissions must be typed, and no more than 700 words. The editorial board of The 
Communicator reserved the right to edit all submissions for length, grammar, style, and clar- 
ity, letters deemed potentially libelous by the editorial board will not be published under any 



•r email to one of the following: 

lenefsOipfwcommunicator.org 
contact©ipfwcommunicator.ofg 
bbellordOipfwcommunicator.org 



Send submissions to: 

Atten; Op/Ed 



[U-WTRF.l SOUTH BEND, bid. - When professor Todd 
hitniore asked his i l.iss il lhc\ helloed the University of 
)tre Dame was a brand. 7b pert. cut replied they strongly 



"They've ended a 
the\ haven't followed their code of conduct." Whitmore 
said. He believes Adidas dues intend io operate by fair 
labor processes, but says the main factor is deciding, 



s says the abundance 

and can openers thai 
i growing 



disagreed, 
f Notre Dame goods 
:ribed with the Notre 
sing the fight song. 

surrounding 



monitored." 'The Adidas C rimpain has only 30 inspectoi 
to cover its factories worldwide. 

"If they see something, they try to address it 
riether there are enoug 



Whitmore said. "The q 



Notre Dame. Ken Mi, mm, the president of NBC Sports. 
described the contract between \'l!t and Notre Dame as 
"a great linkage of brands." 

Whitmore, an associate professor of theology and 
the director of the Program in ( aiholic Social Teaching. 
presented a lecture entitled "Catholic Social Teaching, 
Notre Dame Sports Apparel and the Problem of 
Sweatshops" as part of a three-day conference held in 
McKenna Hall Nov. 10 to 12 on "Catholic Identity and the 
Role of Sport." 

Whitmore serves on a sweatshop task force started 
by University President Emeritus Father Edward Mafloy 
to ensure ethical labor practices by licensees of the 
University. Notre Dame requires all licensees to reveal 
where each of its factories are located and to adhere 
to the labor codes and the principles of Catholic sooial 
teaching. 

According to Whitmore, Notre Dame expects its 
licensees to follow the codes of conduct dictated by the 
Fair Labor Association (FLA) and the Worker's Rights 
Consortium (WRC). These codes prohibit forced labor, 
1 require 



and free do: 

Whitmore desirihed ihe poor working c 
a sweatshop in Lesotho, a country in Africa, but also 
mentioned the presence ol sweatshops in the U.S. Under 
the Department of labor's definition of a sweatshop as any 
factory that violates more than one of the fundamental 
U.S. labor laws, two -third-, ot the gannent factories in Los 
Angeles, Calif., would lall into ihai i aicgory, he said. 

Whitmore said Kinko's, which recently entered into a 
contract with Notre I i.ime. has i lol.ited some labor ethics 
by engaging in the practice ol electronic deduction of 
hours. The managers tell workers to clock out, and then 
require them to stay for two hours to clean up. 



Notre Dame logo apparel in China. However, Adidas 
maintains factories in China to manufacture other goods. 
A Notre Dame Varsity athlete at the lecture informed 
Whitmore that his Adidas shoes, which do not have the 
Notre Dame logo on them, were made in China, proving 
that there may be loopholes to this policy that Adidas 
exploits. 

Whitmore said tli.n overall, Adidas is doing a good job 



social teaching, which slates thai workers should 1 
guaranteed a living wage and die right to organize. It also 
states, "living wage is morally prior and ought to be legally 
superior to the contract." 

Whitmore attempted to refute the argument that 
enforcing a living wage would drive up prices and thus 
reduce demand for the product by asking the audience 
if they would pay S r &gt; i instead of s r &gt;&lt;&gt; for a Notre Dame 
sweatshirt if it was guaranteed that the person who made 
the sweatshirt was making a living wage. The audience 
responded in favor of purchasing the more expensive 

2 Up 



i Malloy as pari ol Noire I lame's labor 
stated, "If a coach or athlete, after 
and discernment, cannot in good 
vear the official contracted apparel, he or she 
situationally-appropriate alternative." While 
not approve this clause, Whitmore said he 
e importance ol ihe primacy of ci 



Much of Whit mures lecture foi used on Notre Dame 

e Adidas. Adidas is a signatory to the Fair Labor helpful, they might help l 
and Whitmore has found the apparel are run intrinsic lo us." 



[" ■■■I' 






i;M-i- !:i : \ 



The Con© 


/1UNICATOR 

IPSNInc. 


H!Hfflfll:fflffll 


Anthony Maurer 


Editor-in-Chief 


Walb Union Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 


Brlanna Bellord 




Managing Editor 


Newsroom / Editor 


bbeifordSipfw com m un Icalo r.org 


(260) 481-6584 


Aiden Bordner 


contsctOipfwcommunlcstor.om 


Advertising Manager 


Advertising 

(260)481-6583 


Amy Ounnuck 

Copy Editor 

adunnucheiptwconununicalor.org 

Courtney Eyer 

News Editor 


Publisher 

(260) 481 -6585 


C0yer6iprwcommurilcator.oig 


Official Website 


Amie Sarka 

Photo Editor 


(260)481-6585 


asarka@lpfwcommunlcator.org 




Justin Kenny 

Sports Editor 

j kenny@ip fwco mmunicator.org 


l?TWfl!7flWI 




Sam Win 


Th, Coral*'. "rnTop"""*."' 


Chief Reporter 


pre.sed *&gt; riot """■j* r" 1 " 1 *• 


ceyer@lplwcommunicator.org 


.lud.n.body.Aeolrrmnl.sel.r,.,,. 


Tim Rodgers 

A&amp;E Editor 


»,po„S, szstr E »szs 


Bodo^pN.oommontotor.o™ 


.no'lTss "SSraJ?"'«r.7."' 


Alex Devinney-Stoner 

Design Editor 


s=r rr "" =;: 


adevirmeystoner 


II Tbe^'ftedbv tTph^ o 


Oiptwcommunlcator.oog 


In person Addrassw end lei.e»on. 


Kendra Cummings- 
Abdullah 


^dnoraor^OoTSde" "^ 


Assistant Copy Editor 


Communicaio, reserves die rigtil to 


lobduBah@ipfwconimunreator.oig 


™. 1™™,"?= deeZl 


Dorie Reynolds 

Publisher 


zzzr*—*"' 


Omyn.laseip^commun.oator.om 





Americans definitely lack literary 
enrichment 



From the Wire 



e of readers. If becoming a bcttei 



tngu 



s.gov), only -1(3.7 per- 15 n 



i for becoming a 

1 handy assun 

dentist's lobby, durini 



(i kill. 






have available 

Flight or any 



e you just have 



I individuals whether they had read any novels. 

short stories, plays m pocin in i It it: i t leisure time over the past 12 

months. More than h.ilt'dl' the surveyed population answered no. 

When 1 first read these results a year ago my jaw literally 

dropped. Less than halt of the American population is taking the 

". for pleasure' Nell your Karnes Samp; Noble stock 

seven percent between 1992 and 2002. Total book reading (56.6 
percent of the population had rcadan\ hook ai all in the 12 months 
prior to the study) is also dec lining, although ai a slower rate. 



Furthermore, I 
ment medium, particularly i 
dollar lust think about it: air 

■n DVD. A video game dial may take til hours 

t $50. A novel, on the other hand, can provide 

ost likely 



&gt; the single most affordable entertain- 
ers of enjoyment per 
o hours long c; 



to beat will n 

anywhere from live to 50 hours of ci 

available in a paperback edition that Wl 

And if you want to try he lore you boy, hooks are still superior; 

the Blockbuster of novels, your public library, has ihe additional 

advantage of renting ils materials out lor free. 

Fortunately for those ol us who would like to see books return 
to prominence, the other impediment in peoples reading can 
he removed. Many i nllege students who would otherwise read a 
novel or 20 say they simply don't have lime to read during school. 

The keys to this problem are in the hands of professors and 



repository of content, anil what you do with it determines the 
benefit you gain from it. thanks to sites like Project Gutenberg 
(www.guienherg.orgt and the Haen free I ihrary (www.baen.com/ 
library/), you can even read loll -length books online. 

But most people who spend their Iree nine online do so chat- 
ting or browsing utterly pointless sites like Myspace or eBaum's 
World. (On a side note about eBaum's World, it's a horrible site that 
makes money by sin king its ugh' watermarks and ads on content 
they largely did not create themselves. Don't patronize websites 
that appropriate others' content. I [ li.it doesn't do anything posi- 
tive for anyone. 

Even more disturbing than the general trend, however, is the 
decrease among adults IH-IM years old-college students, in other 
words. Only 42.fi percent of people in this .ige group read literary 
works, and the drop since 14H_' is a whopping 28 percent com- 
pared to only 18 percent for the total population. That's not just 
sad, in my opinion, it's nearly j tin ip-ol I -a- hndge- in-a-f.nal-b.a2e- 
of-glorv tit'iire—ing. Why aren't we reading? 

The first and more u 

simply have mi interest in hooks these days. 

Perhaps they're engrossed in Desperate Housewives, or maybe 
they are too obsessed with Soul I alibur 3, but the point is that 
fewer and fewer people look on hooks as a viable entertainment 
medium. It seems that for students, imagination is but a relic of 
the past. This is unfortunate, because reading has a wide array of 
benefits. If there's one thing many engineers are accused of, it's 
their inability to write coherently (a very legitimate accusation. 
as anyone who's evei hail to drudge through a scholarly paper in 
engineering knows). The first and most important step in learn- 



I'rofessors should go out of then iv.iv in em mirage students to 
read books that are pertinent to the suh|cct ol i heir classes. 

Wouldn't both parlies benefit il a student could read a quality 



her held, ami (he student gains a deeper understanding of 
tne ciass by seeing it Iromanothei perspective. 

In fact, I think this is such a ureal idea that I will impart upon 
any professors who happen to read this a simple three-step pro- 
gram for encouraging students to read: 

1. Include a list ol pertinent hooks interested students can read 
on your syllabus. 

2. Provide incentives lot studeuis who read these novels, such 
as extra credit tor writing a paper on (lie subject. 

3. Try to actually give your students lime to react by not over- 
loading them Willi homework. projects or papers every week. 

Maybe I'm being idealistic, but I think these three steps would 
go rather far in getting hooks to students ami would not even be 
that difficult to implement. 

The administration could also help prolessors get the ball roll- 
ing by providing opportunities to re.nl and discuss novels that 
relate to their disciplines. 

And while we're at it, dear administrators, could we please get 
more than the token I '&gt; novels in our library? 

All of this is nice to think aboui, hot nnlortunately I cannot 
realistically expect my suggestions to he implemented in my time 
here, if ever. As smb. heating hack the encroaching approach of 
illiteracy is up to the students. 

If you're reading this editorial, . leatlv you're capable of manag- 
ing a n 






i.takcil 



e and the one alter that. 









America is still a liters 



Anti-torture bill needs some serious attention 



A Breath of Left Air 



Who will e 



ng attention, well, I envy you, I am paying 

&gt; the world and to our terrible government 

&gt;, everyday. 1 want to stop paying attention. But if I stop. 



on CNN. I keep the IV on CNN and ESPN e 
sure I didn't miss anything about T.O. or 
Instead, as I sipped coffee and dug a 



norningto make 

■&gt;r some bomb in Iraq, 
j for clean socks I heard 

the heads on CNN talking about the anti-torture bill in Congress. 

Funny, I says to invself, do we in America, the best nation on 
Earth, really need an anti-torture bill? After all, torture is the art 
of the Nazis, or some Communist dictator who bates freedom or 
maybe some loon in a basement with kidnapped children. That 
is who uses torture, funny thai we would ieel the need to remind 
everyone we .Americans) are against it and don't use it. 

Then, oh then, my blood ran hot. Ihe CNN lady told me that 
Dick, our vice president, threw "all his weight" behind shooting 
down the anti-torture bill. 

Then, the CNN lady talked about secret prisons in eastern 
Europe where the CIA has been torturing "enemy combatants" 
who are not worthy ol the Geneva Lonveniion. We, Americans, 
have been using torture. We, Americans, haw used tactics made 
popular by Nazis, &lt; oiuinunists, murderers, psychopaths and the 
truly evil. Never, in all tnvlile, have 1 wanted to see our government 






Why an 

People, the United States g 

continue to use torture and ihc&gt; down light advocate tc 
not joking here, or exaggerating \ nut her list, il I may, to drive this 
point home., .here are mhih oila-i groups tli.n liked to use torture 
you think of them: the V( :. Soviet 



i the world that torture is OK. Thai the t.encva Conventions 
re worthless and a joke and that no one has to follow them. We 
re opening the door to mure torture, more violence against our 
inocent and our pure because our leaders want to punish and 
irlcue people who tight against them. 

Without the Geneva Conventions, unclear, weapons, torture of 
le innocent, murdering ol I'OWs. chemical attacks, attacks on 
on-combatants, outright genocide is&lt;)K and allowed. 

' i charge of our weapons 
ns. judging us. As a part 
ist force change. 1 know 
,me that lead us must be 
es. They are breaking l bl- 



and our lives, and the world is waichii 
of the human race we must act. We i 
of no other solution. These evil and ii 
punished. They are committing w 



just stacking up. 

Every April I do my taxes and shake my fist in the air, and 
sometimes 1 hate the news for being so short-sighted and silly. But 
now, for the first time in my life, I am moved to rage that I could 
support with violence. 



o hesitation. Scream lor justice. 



The Wal-Martians are invading, rampant capitalism 



a 



Simply Ludicrous 



Corporations ol otherworldly proportions are 
taking over the planet. 

Criticism was heaped on President Bush in 
his recent visit to Argentina for the Summit 
of the Americas because of, according to one 
columnist at www.7iuag.org. an "anti-imperialist 
hemispheric movement," 

Argentineans are vehemently opposed to the 
FTAA, a free trade agreement between r 



a specifically 

The Zmag column described cellular phone 
companies, fast food chains, and banks" as 
targets of protestor violence; all are symbols of 
Ainerii an corporate domination. 

At least the Argentineans have enough 
sense to know an ideology when they hear one. 
Americans do not, or they accept every ideology 



revenue. Potential programming can be situated 
in a manner catering to these other interests- 
Let's just say you won't see quite as many 
advert ise men Is for products relating to MTV on 
NBC, because Viacom, not General fleciric. owns 
the Music lelcvisioii family ol cable channels. 



experts, claiming to make the war look 

uiinei cssury. He was successful. However. I [hint 
it I interviewed thirty people I could assemble 
the interviews to make the case thai P. I. is living 
in my basement (I don't even have a basement) 
and the sun revolves around the Earth. 

Greenwald (he is not alone in this; he is a 
lot like a mini media gi.mtl presents a limbed 
* i his film as concrete 



AnewfilmhvHnlicrtcrecnwaklh.isimhreuly 
addressed the ideological issue while looking 
directly at the corporate issue. Htsfiln 
the impact of the astronomical retaile 



You ■ 



s fact. 



production was slated for release. 

Greenwald categorizes his Wul-Marttan epic 
as "small, human, ami deeply personal." pointing 
lo tin- limited subject matter he examines in his 
films. In his prior films these deeply personal 
tactics have proccil on different from those of the 
FOX News channel he so loves to deride. 

His film, Uncovered: The Iraq War, pieced 
together interviews from nearly SO different 
military, international relations and political 



there Lire I hose whoanepl the bam- ol capitalism 
and those who do not. 

Do I think that Wal-Marts or any of the other 
corporate Goliaths are the genuine, upstanding, 
national and communal godsends they believe 
themselves lo be? No. but neither are they the 
Darth Vader of the corporate galaxy. 

But then again, people always think their way- 
is the right way and people always see what they 
want lo see; ii just depends on where they might 
be looking. 

of ANY topic there is room 



for debate. I imiiedaml constricted productions 
such as Grccnw aid's film are vital. Inn i bey should 
welcome the opposite point of view. 

Greenwald cannoi truly expect Wal-Mart 
executives to acknowledge his film with 
a response. But when fellow filmmaker Hon 
Galloway makes a film addressing ihe good Wal- 



ton, Greenwald should jump 
t the chance. In all the press I found, Galloway 
, as adamant abonl a public screening of the two 



n the views are contrasted, 

there must be compromise. Incessaru backbiting 
results in nothing. The people of this nation 
have SO much trouble saying they might be 
wrong (author included) (hat the climate of 
debaie climbs to levels of stellar intensity within 

Compromise is the only way anything is 

accomplished. If we are to have any chance of 
downsizing the i.ipilalisiie juggernauts invading 
our planet, we must he able lo see and accept 
things at leas! partially from the corporate 
perspective I he best way to do that... might just 



o watch some televisic 



Vn;i, &lt; : 



Volleyball loses in tournament 

■ Despite their third straight 20-win season, the women's volleyball program was unable to repeat as Independent Champions 



s in tin- Division I Independe 






n streak heine. extended against us," Hartley- Huiton 
■. did know ili.it and saw ii in the paper and I think it 
Ira something to get ready for that match." 
ii repealing as Independent tournament champi 



pin the icine, 
'loijrnaniL'iil 



third out of nine 
last weekend. 

The Mastodons won (heir pool and advanced to a semi- 
maiih against South Dakota State, but losi in a (jmeline, 



T kill leader. 

"Our kids, 1 Ihink, were devastated." IITWcnarh Kellev Harlley 
Hutton said. "I've never seen them so upset about a loss. They tool 
It very, very hard I'hev took it so hard heeause fhey invested 



really hard 
n. This weekend, 
and it just wasn't 



much. I really fell like we left it on the a 
on that match, as hard as we've worked all 

our work ethic was solid. I think we gave in 
tjuite enough that day." 

IPFW swept luisr Noithem( oloradoina 
hours after the Ids-, to take third, while South Dako 
second after losing to champion I It ah Valley State. 

s telling us that we were the team that everybody 



and winning it lor the third time in loin tries, Hartley- Hutton said 
the season was a sun ess, citing a .Mo rei ord and big-time victories 
over established programs, including Mid-American Conference 
powers Hall State and Eastern Michigan. 

IPFW is liei uming an established program in its own right, with 
a 70-26 record in the last three seasons. A goal of 25 wins was set for 
Ibis mm Min. hut the team lei I one game short. 

"The reality is when you set your goals high, you run a risk of 
coming up short.'' Hartley- Hutton said. Hut. I guess, that's where 
we are. We have to set very high suuid.mls and teach for those." 

The victory over Eastern Michigan was the Mastodons' lirst 
against the Eagles sum e joining the N( AA Divisitm-I ranks in 2001. 
Other big-time wins came against Valparaiso on Nov. 1 and Ball 
State on Sept. 2IJ, when a single -game iei ord irowd ol414 attended 
the Mastodons' i- 1 victory river the Cardinals, 
i significant spark 



IPFW in all athletk programs, including a 10-game schedule of 
some of its schools .ig.nnsi the women's volleyball team. 

Through all of the success, there were a few let downs. A home 
loss against Cornell during IPFW's own invitational at the end 
of September was the first negative Hartley-Mutton mentioned. 
Another loss that showed signs ol some inconsistency was a road 
game when Bowling Creen State swept the Mastodons, 3-0. IPFW 
had won the previous three and the following two games by a 15-3 
margin over opponents. 



e ups and downs, I think, as 
ir work ethic and consistency. Hart ley- Hutton said. 
An individual who remained consistent throughout her 



far a 



I. -Mel 



I 



wanted to beat," Souza said. 

In the first day of tournament play. IPFW did something 
had done in four years .gainst Northern Colorado, they 



fans than any team in the Mid &lt; on or Horizon League, two 
conferences the school h, is shown interest in joining Valparaiso led 
Slate finished the Mid-Con with 18.' fans pet game, while Wisconsin-Milwaukee 
look the top spot lor the I Inrizon I eague with 425. 

Ball State I7!i r &gt; i. Western Michigan K.T.U and Ohio (652) &lt; 
only three MA( schools dial had a higher I 



; Souza. who finished die season with a team high 524 kills. She 
became the school's all time career kill leader in the seventh match 
of the season, surpassing former Mastodon and current Indiana 
Tech volleyball coach [.aura Douglas' record set in 2000. Souza 
finished with 2.30:"&gt; career kills, shattering Douglas' 1,895. 

"You don't ever replace a i-abiana Souza," Hart ley- Hutton said. 
"That's what recruiting is about to fill the needs you have. We just 
signed another Brazilian, a nou i side hitter, she's not going to be Fabi, 
but she is going to be a great player and help us immediately." 

Souza was flattered by the remarks and said Hartley- Hutton 
pulled lier aside after the final game of the season and said, "she 



v that." 



\ proud of n 






e and she wanted n 



i attendance than 
the'Mastadons. IPFW has shown interest in joining this conference, 
too. as the men's soccer team became -m afhliated program in 
September. 

During that process, die MAC agreed to compete more against 



IPFW loses Soma, \sblee Hoth ami l-.rika I eil/ke to graduation. 
Three more seniors will lake their place on the 2006 roster. Another 
three will probably come on as freshman. And the growing IPFW 
women's volleyball program will reload for yet another run at the 

Independent I on n lament championship. 



Basketball inks third recruit 



The* 



■■ ll,l-l,ellull Ii 



Men's basketball inks recruit 
Coach Dane Fife announced last week that 
lunior College Inrw.ird I 'ami k Ecppcl will join the 



"(Lepper) brings a great understanding 
olthe game ami 1 prepared in make an immediate 
impact on our team and program," said Fife 
through an IPFW Athletics Department press 
release, "lbs ability to make shots will give us 
another offensive threat from the perimeter." 

Lepper is originally from lacksonville, 
Florida bin is t intently plaving for lohn Wood 
Community College inljuiniv. Illinois He carries 
a 3.7 GPA, making him a success on and off the 



two players lor the 2006-2007 
Andrea Morrow is a 
of Van Wen, OH. Despite pi: 
she is also capable of stepping 
the outside shot. Having 
Morrow with he a huge 




the Mastodons 



getting l.eis.iloi M.illait Iroin IVIginm. A versatile 
player who is currently playing on ihe Belgian 
National Team, Malfait will be able to switch 
between forward and center for the Mastodons 
It looks like Malfait is the latest standout import 
Patterson has gotten to come to IPFW. 
Men end disappointing season 

The men's son er team ended a sub-par season 
last week with a -I ■() loss at the hands ol Buffalo in 
the Mid-American t onf'erenie quarterfinals. 

The Mastodonswereout-shot 20-5 indie 

n which they never really threatened. 

&gt; ends a disheartening 



Ever considered working for The Communicator? 

pw's Your 
Chance. 

department at IPSN, Inc. has an immediale opening for the following position: 

Advertising Account Executive 



Coach Patterson signs t' 




Who knows Geneva 
Murdock better, her 
teammate or manager? 



Food you cannot get enough of? 



What was your favorite toy as a kid? 



How long do you take in the 
bathroom to get ready to go out? 



What is your dream car? 



What is your best memory playing 
at IPFW? 



Who could you beat one-on-one 
on the men's basketball team? 



What is your dream vacation spot? 



Dog or cat? 



What is your favorite movie? 




Geneva Murdock 



Chicken Wings. 



About 25-30 minutes. 



Playing at Valparaiso 
and getting a career 
high in points. 



Oh, I could take Ja- 
kari (Johnson). 



Neither of them. 



I don't really have 



Ashley lohnson 



Hot Wings (5 points). 



Chicken (5 points). 



Basketball (5 points). 



A basketball 
(5 points). 



One hour (0 points). 



she doesn't take too 
long, 15-20 minutes 
(close, 2 points). 



A Mustang (0 points). 



Anything other than 
what she's got (too 
broad, but 1 point). 



When she started at 
Utah State (0 points). 



When she scored 20 
atValpo (5 points). 



All of them (0 points). 



Tyler Best (0 points). 



Cancun (5 points). 



Cancun, Mexico! (5 
points). 



Neither (5 points). 



Neither (5 points). 



She don't have a 
favorite movie (5 
points). 



Nothing scary 
(2 points). 



Well, it's not too surprising that girls know their friends better than guys. In the case of Candice and 
Ashley, they have studied Geneva inside and out the past few years. Let's hope Geneva can improve on 
her career-high 20 points this season, and get a new car. -By Justin Kenny 



IA 

■■I 

o 

3 




Fife looks for improvement against Ramblers 






Division-II Huntington 

College. A lack of chemistry 
his young 



people think that because it's 
an NAIA team it's a win you 
should have," Fife said. "I would 
say technically that's not true. 
As much as it hurt, I think it's 
exactly what we needed. We 
needed to go against a team 
that executed the way they did, 
that played hard and smart the 
way they did, so our guys can 
see if you do things and play (he 
game the right way...you can 



is stuff we need to work o 
that's building chemistry and 
continuing to grow." the first- 
year IPFW coach said. "We 
showed our players on Thursday 
(Nov. 10} and Friday (Nov. 11) 
why we lost. It wasn't because 
they had better players. Their 
players just executed better. 
They took care of the ball and 
did what their coaches have 
taught them to do and that's 
what we are trying to do with 
our guys." 

The Mastodons lost 72-64 
to the No. 7-ranked Foresters 
and looked sluggish and out- 
of-sync at times. They left 
Huntington players open for 
shots, committed untimely 
fouls and turnovers, and missed 
scoring opportunities, 
young t 



'They a 

Fife said. "They are a very young 
program, too. They are having 
to rely on some young kids as 



in the post and learning how 
better from the opposing tear 
centers and larger forwards 



post," Fife said about the 
Huntington game. "You can bet 
we'll do something different 
than play behind a guy like Alex 



The 

coach, )im Whitesell, enters 
his second season at the helm 
of the Ramblers. IPFW hosts 
Loyola-Chicago this Saturday, 
Nov. 19 at 7p.m. at the Memorial 
Coliseum. The game will follow 



Kock ir 

For the most pan, Kock, a 
former Division! starter at 
Wright Slate, had his way with 
Mastodon defenders, racking 
up 28 points on 12-of-18 
shooting and pulling down nine 
rebounds. 

Also, on the defensive end, 
Fife said his players need to 
show more discipline. He 
explained "not gambling for 
steals and taking ourselves 



players assume leadership ( 

Q 



two years and truly understand 
what we are trying to run," Fife 
said. "So we don't have anybody, 
essentially, lo teach our guys on 
the lloor when we can't be out 
(here with them." 

Hie first players on the floor 
who will show Fife what they've 
learned since the Huntington 
loss will likely be Brad Pompey, 



is being made in the nine days 
between the exhibition and 



the playing Moor. With Quintin 
Carouthers and Justin Hawkins 
the only two juniors on the 
roster who have been at the 
school since freshmen, and 
neither having a playing history 
in the motion system, there is 
no true offensive leader on the 



If any don't show signs of 
improvement or falter, Fife said 
hewillgotothrecorfourplayers 
on the bench to substitute. 

IPFW is 1-1 in its last two 
Homecoming games, Last 
year, the Mastodons defeated 
Division-II Grand Valley State, 
61-54. In 2003. Toledo defeated 



Random Rants and Thoughts 

Ask Skip Hooligan t 

sports@ipfwcommunicator.org 



e beer than previously 
at the Coliseum so far 
on the atmosphere of 

Rant #1 — Atmosphere of the Game 

I ranted quite heavily on this in my first article, I didn't expect 
to see much change either, and I was pretty much right in that 
assumption. I walked in the doors io the arena greeted by the 
cheerleaders and dance te.tni; a bunch of II'IVV calendars being 
given out, and other stuff. It's good to sec more IPFW stuff finally 
and the calendars look good as well. It's still good to sec the beer 
highly overpriced and a l.u k of a total college atmosphere. I think 
I will separate each tiling I tr.ilh disliked nr liked about what I saw 
at the game. 



really don't add anything to m\ experience. I still feel like I'l 
sitting at a Homestead-' aimll game. Sometimes I think instead of 
calling IPFW, "One (.real Uniw-rsity. I wo (avai Names" we should 
call it, "IPFW, the Stales I argcsi I ligh School", ibis weekend for the 
Homecoming games, the Mine and Drew Crew section is going to 
be packed. I hey should he nowhere near us if they ai 



) things like this. I've watched an 
ass load of college basketball. I could sit on a couch and go fat 
watching It For five months. II you notice, most bands are kind of 
the cheerleaders at some schools I hey do a lot of good tilings, and 
play some good music I his is where we differ. 

Now, I'm not snynm ihe\ are horrible. I hey try their hardest, 

y are in the wrong place rigb 

PA. Music would he ;.i lot better 

3) Speaking of RA. Music— I watched the Colts kill the 
Patriots Monday night. You knew when Harrison caught that 
pass in the first drive; the Cubs were going to win. You just had 
that feeling that it was time. Ibis is kind ol what I felt when IPFW 
started to announce their starting lineup and Kenny Loggins' 
"Danger Zone'' started playing. Now I knew we were not going to 
'kill' Huntington. 1 had the opposite feeling, one that made me 
want to hop in my car and drive as far away from this farce of a 
college basketball game. It was just so stupid, I don't even know 
if stupid is the proper word, It"" 



5) Contests— WHERE ARE THE STUD1NI ONES??' I 
remember seeing one student contest there on a half-court shot. 
If I am wrong, who cares, it never changes Ihev might as well give 
the little kids our seats down low since they want to cater more 
towards them instead ol the students I his also gets my new term 
Crapmastotaslic too. Also, who wants a free lease on a car when 
you will have to pay huge t,i\es on it'" Stupid, stupid, stupid.. 



within the University. Me\ I I'l \V students, stop embarrassing yn 
school and yourselves and actually come out to sporting events. 
Speaking of Huntington, they have at least three or four guys that 
could play here, probably start even I have to give credit to Coach 
Plan and their team. 

Rant #2 -The Actual "Game" 

I could almost rant about this for probably three pages, but 
you'd be bored and I don't want to type that much. We played 
Huntington University; most people that don't know college 



showed. Coach lite has a Itu ol work on his hands, A LOT! There 
is no mistake about it. I here were some good and had things that 
I noticed from the game and I had a trustful associate help me out 
with some analysis. 

There seemed to be a certain swagger on the court when Kyle 
Savely and Brad Pnmpev were in there. 1 would start them in the 
backcourt just to see how things u. inspire lor a while. Savely looks 
like a hustler and Pompey has a sweet outside shot. 

Beyond that, what is uur offense;' I know its motion, but I fail to 
see some of our big guys running it. or even if they knew what the 



Purdue's Carl Landry and Mi. hig.in Slate's 
Paul Davis get a crack at them. We still need a more developed 
starting five. Hopefully, file will toy aiound with it because I'm not 
sure 1 agreed on some of the choices. I know he wants the five best 
defenders out there, hut sometimes hustle and offense wins ball 
games too. Overall, ii's what I expected from them, nothing more, 
and nothing less. I will say I, was pleased with some players and 
think they could have solid careers here. I would like to see some 
new lineups and a look at some other players as well. I think we 
have potential on this team, but it may lake all season for them to 
come together and play like winners. 

Rant #3— What might have been... 

Now, I wasn't in favor of interim coat h loe I'cchota leaving after 
last season. What I saw late last year was a team (hat played with 
enthusiasm then ever before. I si ill feel he got a raw deal by 



Potential w/ Pechota 


Fife's Starting 5 1 


PGB. Malone 


PGB.Pompe) 


SG B. Bauer 


SG J. Johnson 1 


CQ.Butla 


A sseghir 1 


n Q, i arouthers 


PFI.Ha 'I"- ! 




si [&gt; Scott 






Dance Teamf'Don" — I 

the game even, it's much better tl 
He is basically what I'm comin; 
should change up songs every o 



;have Dane Fife. I'i 

knocking Coach fife at all, but I 'still feel we could have had a belter 
team if Pechota was here, for example, take a look ,il the potential 
starting line up over who started against Huntington. 

This is tough because on the Pechota side you can change Jason 
Malone, Hawkins, Scott, or Pompey in there anywhere, three guys 
that are now starting on our new team We could even have Charles 
Campbell and Zeljko Fgeric in there somewhere. Instead, almost 



i oaching stall ret roiled him Ibis rl 



defense. Now I like this, this shows lie won't play favorites or put 
up with crap, but 1 feel as I watched liuntinglou's Alex Kock light 
up everyone who guarded him, why not put the mure athletic guy 



win a few more games, actually a lot inure games and could have 
a shot at knocking oft a Purdue or Perm State. And yes, I really did 
just say that. 

Random Thoughts 

1) Even though I said the women's volleyball team would 
win the Independent loiiruameiii I was wrung, and that doesn't 
happen a whole lot. But they still had a great season. They girls 
will lose their best player, labiana Sou/a to uraduation, along 
with seniors Ashlee Roth and I rik.i Leiuke. Hut the learn still has 
definite talent and will once again haveagre.it season next year. 

2) Speaking of Sou/a, is there been a better female athlete 
then her at IPFW? I think she single-handcdh turned the women's 
volleyball program around. Without her the last three years, we 
would nut have won nearly as many games as we did. Beyond that, 
she is as nice a person as you will ever meet. 

3) Duke is rated No. I again in the college basketball (mils. Is 
there any team you hale mote than them? I hope IIJ kicks their ass 
this year and J.I Itedick gets hurt Maybe he blows bis knee out and 
never plays again another minute the rest oi his crappy career. 

4) Come out and support the mens volleyball team Friday 
night against a bum h of surfers from ( alitnrnia Our (earn almost 
made thefinal four last year and returns a lot of good players this 
year. Then stay afterwards for Dave and Rae, I know I'll be drunk 

5) Don't miss the douhleheader on Saturday at the Memorial 
Coliseum. Men's volleyball at 5:30 p.m. followed by the men's 
basketball game against I oyola-l hie ago. I he Blue and Brew Crew 
will be there drunk as usuai, and this time we have twice as much 
time to get plastered 1 feel sorry for the ushers. 

That is the end of my huge rant; I'm still trying to get to 

the women's team review ng other things. I'll still answer 

questions about whatever is on anyone's mind and any garbage 
questions that pertain to nothing of significance. Holla at my boy 
Justin Kenny at jkenny'" iplwcoiiuitunicator.org if you got some 
queries. 



MSports 



i The men's volleyball team gets graded 

Megan Voder breaks down the 



Men's volleyball season preview 



SCHEDULE ► 



18-vs. Long Beach Stale (Exhib.). 7 p.m. 
19-vs. Long Beach State (Exhib.). 5:30 
I Memorial Coliseum 




■ Coach Arnie Ball leads his team into a new season, and looks to 
improve on his already respectable record and reputation after a 
hard-fought 2005 campaign. 

By Megan Yoder 



unS;mmi;iy, Nov. 18th, then 



3-4-et Penn StHte Invitational 
M-alQuincy. 7 p.m. 
17-vs. Ball State, 7 p.m. 
IH-at Mcrcyhursl, 7 p.m. 
24-at Ohio Slate. 7 p.m. 
25-vs. Quincy, 7 p.m. 



i Nnrih Dakota Slate, 7 p.m. 

i smith Dakota Stale, 7 p.m. 

,n North western, noon 

vs. Texas A&amp;M Corpus Christ], 7 p.n 

,i! Northern Colorado, 7 p.m. 

vs. South Dakota State, 8 p.m. 

vs. North Dakota State, 3 p.m. 



l-vs. Ohio Stale, 7 p.m 
7-vs. Loyola, 7 p.m. 
14-vs. Penn State, 7 p.r 
15-vs. Rutgers, 7 p.m. 



s volleyball 1 1'. ii 1 1 will strap on their helmets im knee pads) and 
3 the Allen County War Memorial Colisi'i i in fur ill. 'in In id L\liil .iimn nf (he 2005-2006 
season against nationally ranked Long Beach State. A spirited Homecoming week will culminate 
with Amies Anm taking tlu- conn again this season, ,md hopchill\ with ,i better outcome than last 
year. As always, the expectations .in high lor ll'l YVs most renowned Division. I sport, especially after 
last year's loss in the semi-final round nl the post-season tournament, one win away from advancing tc 
the NOW Final lour. I his season, the Mastodons are looking !» heller themselves in a big way. 

A tough schedule begins e.irb kit the Mastodons, when the regular sea sun kicks oh in early lanuary, 
home games against nanmialK ranked (earns Ball State and Ohio Stale. On the road. Penn State as well as 
Rutgers will pose a challenge to the team. 

Last year, the team finished 8-8 in the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association. The inexperience 
ol hve freshmen, along with the loss ol setter Dennis Santiago m.ide headway difficult, especially in the first 
few games, hut wins picked up through lanuary and the Mastodons looked forward to a good season ending. 
Finishing just shy of the finals, ihe\ have so met lung io prove to themselves .aid their lans this year. 

Looking comfortable and familiar as a roster, the team returns with all but two of last year's team, and adds 
some talented freshmen and transfers to the mix. 

"I feel like we are a better team than last year," lihcro Mike Mom i said. "We did lose M.ttn / i.Matt /h\s/ewskii 
"on, but we picked up some very good players. We warn to win the NCAA Tournament." 
a whole, while young, added some experience in the form of transfers this fall. Junior middle 
irOliveira and others will bring experience ^iu&lt;.\ encouragement to a fairly young squad. As always, 
e captains will set the tone for a young team, and senior Serdar sikca will be asked to do |ost that. He will 
lead ,\n aggre.-ive front against long beach State on Friday, Nov. 18. Josh Collins and his crew of young 
outside hitters, along with Morici will help defend the home side against Long Beach's powerful Dune; 
Budinger. 

"We will definitely put up alight. It should be a very' good game this weekend,' Morici said. 

Four returning starters will begin Saturday, Nov. 19. while the fight is still going on as to who will 
replace Matt Zbyszewski. 

"This year, no one is trying to replace Matty, but everyone is looking to better themselves, and 
team," Oliveira said. "1 think that the team as a whole is more complete." 

With coach Arnie Ball leading the way in his Jtah season, no goal is too high, and the Mastodons 
working hard in practice to tie up any loose ends before Friday's preseason game. 



" Oliveira said. "We are all very a 




More about the n 



Meet the men's volleyball team 





Ki , I; 






i luilool Hail im n Impn ui tftlb the pei nance ol [art 

I,im ft'iiMin. he did not licsit.nr i.j pursue his younger brother, f 
-Inn die yi-ur, Hull expecis t un-\ t.i help out In a 111 




■.-■:■.■ 

year undei his belt, he »jii be coon 



e 



Q 



i: Outside Hitter/Opposite 



i 



c Playing both right and left, Hemphril adds a le 

Tastodons offense A career high el seven digs against Clark Ires 




Outlook: With a career high for kills of 1 3 and digs with 
game a few years ago. Belman poses a strong dm h i&lt;&lt; 



Q 




&amp; 



Q 



lotential to step up and lead in Zbyszew ski's absence. Also look 
ist Long Beach State this weekend. 



\l.i-aodons ol'li-iiH 



Ition: Middle Hitter 



8 



Outlook: The older of the Stewart brothers, Hall was ,&lt;, impiev-ed with 
his performance that he pursued his younger brother. With career highs 
of II kills, and eight dUuK his presence will he even more important In 
2007. after the graduation of Sikca. 




Outlook: Lundeen is a Minim n.msk-r IV ( .uiiosun Junioi 

Victoria, British Columbia, The Mastodons have struggled at the si 
position since the departure of Dennis Santiago after the 2004 sea 
The Mastodons are looking for leadership from the junior. 



( In-. Inn. in from Qui 




