The 



Wednesday, April 17. 2002 



Communicator 

Indiana University — Purdue University Fort Wayne 



Tuition to increase 10 percent next fall 



WEST LAFAYETTe, Ind. — 
(PU NewilTTie Puidoe Univorsily 
Board of Tnislecs Fnday approved 
a 20D2-20O3 conceptu,il budget 
plan thai will trun^asc basic foes 
(or students at all Purdut^cunpuS' 
esby 10 pcrecnt. 

"The (ees and budget plan 
lake into account the reduclioru 
in sialic appropriations recently 

dclicit reduction plan," said 
President Martin C jischke 



at the 

ted to moving forward with ttie 
initiatives outlined in our slnite- 
gic plan and ensuruig the aca- 
demic quality embodied in a 
Purdue education. 

"Althou^ this fee increase is 
higher than we would like, it 
docs not make up for the state 
funding we will lose as a result 
of Indiana's budget shortfall." 



Iischke said Purdue has 
reduced spending during the 
current budget vear by reallocat- 
ing hinds, Teavmg staff vacan- 
cies unfilled, restricting travel 
and dc/emng non-critical repairs 
and equipment replacement. 

The 2002-2003 budget plan 
calls for no increase in supply 
and expense budgets and S3.2 
million in reallocahons at the 
West Lafayette campus. 

Starting ncit fall, total fees lor 



Indiana will be 
S4J80 a year at Purdue's West 
Lafayette campus, an increase of 
S416 Out-of-state shidents will 
pay SI5.260. an increaseol S1388. 
Newly enrolled students will 
pay an additional Sl.OOO in fees, 
which was approved by the 
tnjslees m No\'crril&gt;er as part of the 
Purduestralegic plan. Each region- 
al campus also approved a new 
student fee as pari of Iher plans. 



At the West Lafayette cam- 
pus, the fee increase for new 
students will fund approxinute- 
ly S8 million m academic enKmce- 
merits, including: more faculty in 
the classnxim, student (iruricial 
aid. facull)' compciwation, infor- 
mation Ipchnolog)'. diversity- and 
experiential leanung. 

"IVhen the slratepc plan was 
approved, we plei^ed lo use 
the new student fee to fund ini- 
lialives that directly benefit stu- 



dents," Jischke said. "IVe will 
stay the course on that promise. 
In order for us to move to the 
next level olcxcellence. we must 
keep a clear vision of ourcritical 
mission — providing the peo- 
ple, tools and educational eipe- 
ricnccs ne«ded to give our stu- 
dents a world-class education. 

ThLs is a necessary Invest- 
ment today that will make 
Indiana, the nation and the 
world a belter plac 



SAB to bring 
acclaimed 
mindreader 
to campus 



By Todd Hamm, News Editc 



"Hie SAB-sponsoted event begins at 
show is free and open lo (he public. 

Barbeque chicken wings and refreshments will 
be available throughout Ihe show, 

Karges. who has 
been performi 




Pholocour1esykarges.com "Campus 

will perform at IPFW on times. 

April 23 in the Walb "His show pnam- 

Ballroom- '^^ lo be worth 

Lori Beth Royse, director of Student Life at IPFW. 
"You'll be spellbound It's the best show I've seen 
in all the years I've been doing campus 

Karges performed at II'FW last spring. Royse 
said Karges' acl includes a number of mindreading 
tricks, including one in which his paycheck for the 
performance is at slake. 

Royse explained Ihat Kargjs' cheek is sealed in 
one ol three identical envelopes and he must 
choose the correct one. Aftor the selection; she said, 
the other two envelopes are lorn up- 

"He's done this trick for the past 12 years and 
he's only been wrong twice," she said. If he is 
uiuucccssful in choosing the right envelope, the' 
money for Ihe performance goes back to the coUege. 

Karges' show immerses the audience in trie 
performance. He uses tricks like linking Ihe 
rin^s ol three audience members together in a 
chain and reading Ihe serial number of a bill 
while blindfolded. 

Minds arc read and prediclioiu are made and 
verified during his performance. 

Karges has performed on "The Tonight Show 
with Jay Lcno and "Larry King Live." 

He has also made a television special, 
"Experience the Extraordinary," which 
will be s&gt;'ndicated nationally. 
Addihonally, he is the author of 1 
book "Ipule Your IntuitJoa" whii 
now in lis second printing. 




Alcohol Screening 



Photo by Denniez Zhie. Photo Editor 



Don Smith, tight, IPFW personal counselor; Judy Ullapaugh, center. Health and 
Wellness coordiralor; and Margie Faley, RN, work the booth at Ihe IPFW Substance 
Abuse Council's annual Alcohol Screening Day on April 10 in Walb Union, 



Candidates to 
debate issues 
on campus 



WUl the gloves come off. or wQI it be a civi- 
lized affair? At least two candidates for the 
Republican nomination for the office of Allen 
County Prosecutor will lace off in a debate 
cosponsored by IPRV's political science 
department and the Mike Downs Center for 
Indiana Politics on April 24. 

James Lutz, chair of the department of polit- 
ical science, says Mike Loomis and Nikos 
Nakos have accepted the invitation to debate. 
The third candidate. Karen Richards, lias been 
invited and will attend if a courl case permits. 

The debate will be moderated by political 
science professor Michael Wolf at 7 p.m. in 
Classroom-Medical Building. Room 159. TTie 
debate will include queslioiu asked by profes- 
sor Wolf, along with additional questions from 
the audience later in the event. 



— Infor/TUttion a 



11/ Unitvrsily R^lalioni 



Strut Train to play at 2002 Earth Day 



IPFW celebrates iLs Earth Day 
2002 celebration with a number 
of events including musical per- 
formances by Strut Train and 
John Curran and the Renegades. 

Events will lake place on 
Saturday. April 20, from noon lo5 

Ei.m. in the courtyard behveen 
Valb Union and Hclmke Library. 
The event, sponsored by the 
IPFW Biology Club, is free and 
open lo the public. For more 
information, contacl the Biology 



Club at 481-6305, 

Earth Day will also 
ture children's games 
and prizes; free food, a 
moon walk; prescnt.i- 
tions by the - 
Wayne Child 
Zoo and S&gt; 
Hawk; an eiot 
and flower sale; . 
booths from m: 
educational vendors. 

Earth Day is a yearly 




ivith r 



1 Ihe 



1970s, 

Founders held 
the first Earth Day 
with the goal ol 
leaching the public 

about environmental 



both fun 



that i 



Concert to feature Aria 
Competition winners 

The IPFW department of music will present 
the IPFW Community Orchestra Spring 
Concert, feahiring four winners of Ihe 6th 
Annual IPFW Student Concerto and Aria 
Competition on Monday, April 29, at 7;30 p.m. 
m Neif Recital Hall, *^ 

TTie IPFW Community Orchestra, conducted 
by David Cooke, principal trombone for Ihe 
Fort Wayne Philharmonic, is comprised of 50 
members. 20 who are students and 30 who are 
members from the commui\ily. 

The first half of the program will include 
"Symphonic Espagnole" by Eduard Lilo. 

On Sunday, April 28. the Symphonic Wind 
Ensemble will perform at 2:30 p.m. in Neff 
Recital Hall. Admission lor IPRV shidenls with 
ID is free, S4 for adults, S3 for seniors and SI for 
all other shidents. 

For more information, call the department of 
lusic at 260-181-6714. 
-In/brmution covrlesy Univrsih/ Rilalions 



Zoo Disccovery Series encourages 
students to choose biology careers 




Tlie Fort Wayne 
Children's Zoo will con- 
duct its annual Zoo 
Discovery Series at 11^30 
a.m. on Thursday. 

The event, to be held at 
Ihe Chamber of Commerce 
Anthony Wayne Room, 
located at S26 Ewing 
Street, provides an oppor- 
tunity for college and high 
school Shidents to explore 
careers in wildlife saences. 

The featured speaker of 
the series ttiis year will be 
Frank Paladino, chair of 
Ihe department of biology 



tion biologist who is 
eia mining the declining 

Eopulation and biology of 
'athcrback sea turtles in 
Playa Grande, Cosla Rica. 

With over 20 years of 
experience, his research 
has t&gt;een globally signifi- 
cant to the understanding 
□f Icatherback sea hirtlcs. 

The Fort Wayne 
Children's Zoo will open 
for the season on 
Saturday, April 27. 

New addihons lo the 
zoo this year include the 
rattlesnake exhibit, which 
showcases 12 different 
predators. 



Also new this season, 
will be a herd of wilde- 
beest on the 22-acre 
African Veldl. 

The Jack D. Diehm 
Museum of Natural 
History, located adjacent 
to the Children's Zoo, will 
open on April 27, 

TticDidim Museum fea- 
tures more than IJXW speci- 
mens of mammals, birds, 
insects and marine life. 



State cuts mean reduction in Extension, animal health services 



WEST LAFAITETTE. Ind, — 
{PU News) If the slate tunding 
crisis is not addressed, cuts to 
the Purdue Universitv 
Cooperative Extension Service 
and Arumal Disease Diagnostic 
Laboratory will reduce family 
services and leave the slate vul- 
nerable to animal disease out- 
breaks, according to Victor 
Lcchtenberg, dean of Purdue's 
School ol Agriculture. 

"We could lose as many as 20 
to 25 Extension educators 
across the stale," Lechtenljerc 
said. The ADDL also expects to 
reduce staff signiricantly. 

"At a time when Indiana 



biosecurity and a need for 
increased economic develop- 
ment and youth services, wc 
need our state leaders lo know 
these cuts will hurt the citizens 
of Indiana. 

-We'll try to meet the 
Extension reduction through 
staff attrition and the elimina- 
tion of some programs, but we 
can't njle out the possibUity of 
layoffs or office closings. Such 
drastic cuts will mean we can't 
meet our responsibilities." 

The seven percent reduction 
in state-funded line items 
ordered by the governor direct- 



ly affects county offices and 
field staff in Extension and the 
ADDL on campus. 

Purdue Eileiuion educators 
provide services to youth 
through traditional 4-H clubs, 
other youth programs and 
classroom curricula. 

Other Extension services 
include program 
parenting, fin an 
development, farming and 
environmental stewardship. 

TTie ADDL staff reductions 
would include a veterinary 
diagnostic pathologist and 
virologist, as well as at least 
three support staff positions 



and an undetermined amount 
ol student help. The ADDL is 
the primary laboratory sale- 
guard for animal health in 
mdiana. 

"With these reductions, we 

respond to an animal emer- 
gency or health crisis without 
seriously compromising other 
services provided by the 
ADDL." Lcchtenberg said- 
County Extension offices 
and staff are funded ttirough a 
combination of slate and coun- 
ty funds, a cooperative effort 
that ensures university expert- 
ise addresses local priorities. 




Photo by Andrew Howard, Sporls Editor 

Fun in the trees 

students Matt Drayer, lop, Jonathan Isch and Darren 
Drayer, not pictured, decided to climb a beech tree 
across from Walb Union on Friday. Said Isch, "We just 
got out of class and decided it was a good time to climb 



Page 2 The Communicator 



Opinions 




Letters to the Editor 



Fellow IPFW Cor 



nity Memben and Cilizens of N 



irlheasi Indiai 



We aie wriling Ihis letTer to encourage you Lo parlicip.ile in Ihe May 7 primary election and supporl 
the candidacy o( former Fort Wayne mayor, Paul Helmke. for Ihe 3rd Congress) on ol dislriel. Paul Helmke 
IS challenging Congressman Mark Souder in Ihc Republican primary. During his tenure as mayor. Fori 
Wayne grew tremendously, and became a belter place lo live. He represented Ihe interests of all citizens, 
regardless of his oivn beliefs. He and his family have also been very strong supporters ol IPFW, including 
the students, faculty and staff. One only need look at Helmke Library lo understand Ihe family's support 
of Ihe university, Paul Helmke is currently a time member of Ihe IPIW Community Advisory Board, 
Moreover, Paul Helmke supports a proposed increase m stale funding for IPHV. 

On the other hand, Mark Souder. the incumbent congressman, failed lo represent the interests of the 
IPFW community. Despite Ihe fact that he is an alumnus, a past student body president and a former pres- 
idenl ol ihc IPI^ Alumni Assodalion. he has never represented Ihe interests of IPFW duringhis tenure as 
congressman. As is well known by the IPnv community, IPFW has been one of Ihe worst funded univer- 
silics in the slale. Last year, we became the least funded campus on a per shidenl basis. 

Lately, the relationship between Congressman Souder and Ihe IPFVJ community has deteriorated. 
Despite legaldccisionsinsupporl of an IPFW student's right to present a controversial play. Congressman 
Souder disagreed. This is his right. However, as a representative sworn lo uphold the U,S. Coi^slitution, he 
has the obligation lo support the court's rulings. Do his personal feelings thus give him the right to uni- 
laterally refuse &lt;o allend events on Ihe campus and vow never lo set foot on campus again until he receives 
a personal apology? Do we not eipect more out of our representative? Other politicians representing 
Norlheasl Indiana personally disagreed with the showing of the play, but maintained their support of 
IPFW t&gt;ec.iuse of its importance to the development of this region. Why can't Rep. Souder? 

We feel Mr. Helmke has a good chance of unseating Rep. Souder in this primary. We encourage you 
lo show your support of IPFW by joining us in voting for Paul Helmke in the Republican Primary Election 
this May. 

Prtfr Hamburger. Mik^ NiisJuiimcT and Linda Wnghl-Bouvi 



Elinor's now, Vrn l/ller 



a past "From The Righl ' coliim 



: again at your high-hand- 
. you are droppmg lo the 
obvious of your contempt 
, , „ be of a lower level than 

straight people? You challenge us to be open-nunded in your auest for morality, yet you contin- 
ue lobe closed-minded ofanythinc that might be even a little liberal. And how dare you suggest 
Ihal someone flipping burgers will never amount to anything! Do you realise that several "fast 
food joints" sponsor college scholarships for their ejnployees? You wear your Christianity like a 
badge, like you are a deputy of the MoraLty Police, Doesn't the Bible say, "Let he who nas not 
siruied cast Ihe first stone?" Maybe you should slop being so judgmental and lake some of your 
own advice— )ust a Ihou^t. There is one statement of vours 1 do agree with, "...it is when the 
moral decay has seeped mto the very people who would otherwise consider themselves moral 
tfiat true moral decay has occurred." Well, maybe it's time to plant some flowers, because i smell 
compost coming from your direction. 

lo Bith Harris 

Communication major 



live a true life, not 
one of hypocrisy 

1 stood last week, talking wilh mvold hish school 
cross country and (rack coach, who h.is rrceiil^ acnpl- 
cd a pojitian as vice principal of a nearby high school. 

VVhen he spoke of his job, he sjid there were two 
obi-ioujl;^- diffeirat kmds of people htdealt with on a 
daily basis. 

As the administrator in charge on disople.he 
noted that the first type ol !ludenls took nsponsibiUty' 



for their ac 



From the 
Right 

Nathan Diehl, 

Staff Columnist 

(fiehniO l@ha)mes.ffiv.edu 



i 



The other group, at which he shook his head, 
alway.s passed the buck to someone else. Even parents 
tried to take blame away from their diild. 

Tlicre are t%vD grtal differences in people hen.'. 
Some aren't afraid lo stand up and say. Tes. I did that 
I am sorry. 1 will not do It again." 

Yet others Ivde behind a laigc ego, smile and glan;, 
and sav, "Oil. yeah, I l^ow what jwi'n; talking iibout. I 
. think I'saw Billy do Ihat Wliy don't you ask hiin about itr* 

It is obvious that one type ol person is the person 
who we all look up to and aamire, while the olncr L^ Iho 
one we all h.ile; the liar, dicattr and hypocrite. 

U you have such a strong ego that vou ate luuble 
lo admit wrongdoing, then there are only two choices 
for you to follow. First, you can continue to be a liar, Uv- 

Second, you can live a life of Iruth. abslnltu'ng from 
doing the things of which you do not want to adrnit. 
The easiest way to avoid the pcoblems that come with 
passinc ^^ buck and being a liar is to avoid the situa- 
tions Ihemselves. You obviously won't be lying when 
you say you didn't do it If you re.iUy didn't! 

II aD bolls down lo hypocrisv. Do you do what you 
say, or do you say what you don t do? You are n hyp- 
ocrile if you say one thing and do another. 

Hypocrite is a term tlirown out toward Christians 
a lot; but in raility. Ihere are a lot more hypocrilea who 
aren't Christians than who are. It is easy lo point a fin- 
ger and enjoy the faults and downfalls of others, but 
when you yourself are Ihc epitome of a hypocrite, the 
very action of pointing a finger yields five fingers point- 
ing back at you. 

It all goe» back lo the moral decay you've read 
about in the past months. It is only when your own 
have sunk low enough that nothing is ever your fault. 

Have a backbone, people, sland against the decay, 
and grow your morals back &lt;o a respectful place a^ln. 
Be consistent and lake responsibility, even though the 
consequences mav be harsh, but in the enii, your back- 
bone will gitiw sb-ong and straight, a loUd and proud 
deviation to the trends of moral decay. 



I found Mr. Westrick's remarks concerning the election to be dead ort As a student working for 
Channel 56. 1 was honored lo run the sound cues for the "Apolitical Party and Community 
Convenliort" Souder 's absence was noted by many. 

Recalling that he was one of Ihe loudest objectors concerning IPFVi/ and the "Corpus Chnsti" 
play. It is obvious that Souder wants the stale to censor works of art, and this is a very sbppery slope 
that he would place our very feet on. 

In the matter with gettmg S4 million m funding for Notre Dame, a private school not even in his 
own district. 1 once agaui smell something loul that reeks of bovine fecal matter. His priority lies with 
his alma mater, and not with the schools in his own district. _ 

An issue not raised by Mr. Westrick was Souder's stand on drug offenders and student aid. 
Souder believes that any student that is convicted of a drug crime, no matter how rrunor, should lose 
their studcnl aid. Even someone who would be caught with nothing more than a roach (the butt of a 
mari)uana cigarette) would lose their aid under these guidelines. 

1 will be crossing party lines this primary, and voting for Paul Helmke. He promises lo support 
IPFW and hiis good sense. I urge everyone who cares about our school and commuruty to 



Republican in this pnmary. and v. 
h-if VV fjrnmvrlh 



r- Helmke, 



In a colurrm m the April 3 Communicator, Nathan Diehl perpetuates the false myth 
that gays choose to be gay and are not really different. As someone who suffers from 
schizoaffective disorder, a chemical imbalance thai requires medication, I can teslify that 
my mental health is not just a matter of gelling it straight. The chemicals caused voices and 
delusions Ihat medications have reversed and eliminated. Many still thir\k that there 
should be no medications. I would not be coherent without them. Gays are really different 
and the attached letter from my brother explains very clearly their side of that argument. 
Please print this letter as a rebuttal to Nathan Diehl's misstatement. 

Mark Robert Gates 

Sophomore 

English I 

Tliere is no "proof ofani/lhing either waj/'beaiuse no one will touch il loilh a ten-hot pole. 
Even the gay commimityfiglils against ierioiis reiearch into a cause because they dread a "cure" 
that would tear apart their community and turn their identity into a disease (Just as many in the 
deaf community are fighting cures for hearing impairmml.) 

Vie most likely and logical answer is that most often, titeir sexual identity is skeuied by a birth 
defect or hormone deficiency in the womb. No other explanation covers all the bases. 

Simply saying it's genetic fills flat when one realites that homosexuality docs not run in^m- 
ilies and most homosexuals never breed. Were it genetic, homosexuality would have died out long ago. 

Saying It's a "choice' fdllsjial as well, since homoseiuality has occurred at roughly the same 
rate in every culture on Earth since the beginning of recorded history, no matter hmv separated far 
millennia those cultures were. Also, many olh^ mammals and birds have a roughly steady per- 
centage of homosexuality that occiifs, showing that not only humam have this happening to them. 

Granted, these are all assumptions, but tlury are assumptions based on fact. However, in Ihe 
present, that is all tee have to go on. 

f inaJfy, I iriin see absolutely no harm caused lo society by homosexuals. I've seen absolutely 
no evidence that homosexuality is a learned behavior In pict, children raised by homosexual par- 
ents are no more lilaly to be gay than children raised by heterosexual parents. 

I am. at heart, a libertarian, I believe people should be free to do and live as they please, so limg 
as they are not harming anyone else. And being offended, or living religious indignation is NOT 
harm caused by someone else, it is YOUR reaction to them thai is harming you. not their actions. 

I hope this helps. In the end. debating people who think homosexuality is wrong seldom accom- 
plishes anything because it is a hate or fear caused by irrational fulings in tlie first place. Why 
would one have such foelinp against something or someone who has never caused them any harm? 
There is no rational reason, therefore the dislike of homosexuals is irrational. Even if lliey claim Ihe 
Bible is the reason tlury feel Ihis way. you seldom, if ever, see them read Ihis uvy to any other kind 
of vice Ihat clearly does not harm others. 




Kathy Dclograngc, Editor 

Dawn Early, Managing Editor 

Todd Hamm. Neva Editor 

Jonah CrimiDrT, Features Editor 

Rente TtiompsoD, Special Sections Edilo 

Aniirtvt HawDTd Sports Editor 

Deonlez Zhle, Photo Editor 

Adam Ikylur, Copy Editor 

Bmndori Scbwanr, Reporter 

EUb Stutiman...trfi(rrtrinj Manoier 

Doric Rtjoolds. Publisher 



The Communicator 

Suite 215, Walb Student Union 

2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 

Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

stupaper@holmc3.ipfw,edu 

Editor. 481-6584 

Publisher. 481-6585 

Advenising: 481-6583 

Fax: 481-6045 



Unsigned etJitorials are the opinions of The 
Communicator. The opinions eipressed do not 
necessarily reflect the views of IPFW, its employ- 
ees or its student body. A column is solely the 



opinj 



luthor. 



The Communicator welcomes responses from 
its readers. Letters lo the Editor and guest columns 
must be signed, dated and accompanied by a cur- 
rent, valid address, phone number, class standmg 
or title and major. Letters without these require- 
ments will not be considered for publicatioi\. 

All submissions made via e-mail will \x veri- 
fied by phone or in person. Submissions via mail 



ore-mail without this information will not be pub- 
lished, except under eitraordinary circumstances. 
Addresses and phone numbers vrill never be pub- 
lished. 

Submissions musl be typewritten, 
double-spaced and no more than 400 words. 
Deadline is 6 a.m. on the Monday prior to Ihe print 
dale to allow for timely consideration. 

The editorial board of The Communicator 
reserves the right lo edit all submissions for 
length, grammar, style and clarity. Letters deemed 
libelous by The Communicator's edilorial board 
will not be published under any circumstances. 



Opinions/Highlights 



Whafs up this week: 

WqcjrLCftday. April 17 

Arthropology Club Speaker Senes, noon-1 p.m., Kettler G46 

Pjgan Student Alliance Mecling, 7-JO-lO p.m., Walb 222-226 
United Senualilies Prism Discussion Group, 7-9 p-nu 
Delia Sigma Pi Chapter Meeting, 9-U p.m., Kettler 101 
IP-COP Zach Klule Meeting, noon-1 p.m., Walb G21 
Phi Cafe Philo, 7-9 p.m., Borders 



Thursday. Apri 118 

Campus Ministry University Religion Forum, noon-l:15 p.m., Walb 222-226 



Campus Ministry Bible Study, noon- 1p.m., Walb 114 

Newman Catholic Group Catholic Mass, 10:45-11:45 a.m., Walb 110 



Student Goverruncnl/ Student Orgariizatioits, End of the Year Bash, 6 
Walb Plaza &amp; Pavilion &amp; Walb First Floor 



Frid iiy. April i9 

lrlerVarsil&gt;' Christian Fellowship Soldiers of the Cross Training and Prayer, 4-630 
p.m , Wa!b 110 



InlerVarsity Christian Fellowship Meeting, 7-9:30 p.m., Walb G21 
Mispanos Unidos Meeting, 7-9 p.m., Walb 110 



Saturday. April 20 

Biology Club Eorth Day, 11 a.m.-6 p.m.. Classroom Medical 159, Science Building 
1 68, Walb Plaza, Science Building Lobbies and Hallways 



UNAS Meeting, 1-3:30 p.m., Walb Ballroom 



Sunday. April 21 

Pi Beta Phi Meehng, 4-9;30 p.m., Walb 222-226 



Phi Kappa Theta Meehng, 6-9 p.m., Walb 110 

Delia Gamma Meeting, 5-9 p.m., Walb G21 

Fellowship for Christian Athletes Meeting, 7:15-8 p.m., Walb Blue Room 

Sigma Phi Epsilon- Meeting, 7-9 p.m., Walb 116 

Greek Council Meeting, 5-6 p.m., Walb Fireside Lounge 

rionors Program, Classroom Medical Lobby 



Monday April 22 

Campus Ministiy Bible Shidy, noon-l p.m., Walb 110 



Hispanos Unidos Latin Dance Lessons, 7-830 p.m., Walb Ballroom 
Greek Council Blood Drive, 9 a.m.-2 p.m., Walb Ballroom 



Tuesday. April 23 

Campus Ministry Staff Prayer Meehng, noon-1230 p.m, Neff 257 



Craig Karges, 7-10 p.m., Neff 101 

Prayer Meeting IVCF, 1-2 p.m., Walb 110 

Wednesday, April 24 

Anthropology Club Speaker Series, noon-1 p.m., Kettler G46 

Pagan Shident Alliance Meeting, 7:30-10 p.m., Kettler 242 

United Socialities Prism Discussion Group, 7-9 p.m., Walb 110 



Information courtesy of the Office of Student Life webpage: 
h ttpillivww. ipfiv.edu fs ttilifel calendar si even ts/Apr_eve.h tin 



Next Week's Special Section in 
"The Communicator: 

Entertainment! 

Tune in to check out the 

latest happenings in the 

entertainment world! 



Earth Day 
Saturday^ April 20 

Come enjoy bands, 
games, free food, a 
moon walk, pre- 
sentations by the 

Fort Wayne 

Children's Zoo, 

educational booths 

and more! 



Human cloning issues: 

A catastrophe waiting to happen 

The issue oi human cloning First began lo The dingers seem loo nsky for a human baby. 
heal up m 1997 when Ooily Itw sheep was cloned. Genetic defects that occur in cloned humans 

Although a public poll showed that the maforily could affcci not only the clone itscll, but could be 
of dlizerrs disapprovE^J of human cloning (or elh- implanted into the human gene pool. If »ve clone 
ical reasons, there is still no legislation in place humans, we face ttie risk otallenng life for many 
outlawing human clonmg. 11 is time that ive join future generations. 

other countries and stale Ihat we do not believe it Along wiih hi^ mutation rates, there is also 

is ethical to clone human life. a large concern for psychological problems. The 

In lale August, the Human Cloning effects of being your mother's hvm and yout 
Prohibition Act of 2001 passed in the House of brother's uncle are uriknotvn. 
Representatives by a 265-162 vole. Il faces Senate I argue Ihat human life is too valuable to 

votebctwcen now and May.Thisbill would make place under tliis uncerlainty. In animal research 
it illegal lo clone a human bemg. with possible there has only been one successful clone for over 
punishment of 10 years in prison and a SI million 300 fetal dealhs. I personally do not believe thai 
fine. I adamantly agree with this, and believe this the possibility of crcaling one human life Is worth 
legislation should be passed. ■••••«■«■■ "^^ potential loss of 300 others. I 

Currently, the only restticlions on •••••••••• value all human life. For one to say 

such acliviliBS are that they can't be • ^, f^ • that human cloning is |u.Mifbble, he 

performed with public lax dollars and ■ jtail • """' "grcc that the benefits of one 

the FDA must approve them. Private • • human clone outweigh all of these 






; federal funds, have con- 
tinued their research for a human 
clone It IS speculated that a human 
clone IS nut thai far off in the future. Peisonalty, I 
ticlieve this would be a detriment to society. 

I agreed with President Bush when he made 
the stalement. The use of embryos to clone is 
wrong. Wc should not, as a society, grow life lo 
destroy 11, and that's enarlly whal is lakinfi place." 

Tne cutieni cloning technology requires thai 
several embrj'os be created and a" ' ' 

destroyed. This alone has spurred _ „ . 

aigumenls between groups such as Pro-life and what would happen if ihcy finally did 
Pio-choicc. When Ihal potential life is extin- and the baby spontaneously aborted or even died 
guL^hcd. a moral crime is taking place, whether it shortly alter birth, after a bond had been made, 1 



^ proposed benefits of clonmg such as 

™2? '^r^TmpSn'""'' ""' ^" 

Howeier, the loss of life would drastically ci 
er Ihe few tienefils. 

Some infertile couples are desperate lo try 
cloning in order lo have a child. I fear that the risk 
for disappointment heavily outweighs Ihe possi- 
bility Ihat they will actually have a child. I doubt 
a couple could emotionally withstand the pain of 
be making 300 attempts to conceive only lo fail. This 
ly ethical would have devastating effects, not lo menlioi 



is legal 

However, Ibis is just one piece of the pi 
cloning is wrong for many olher 






don 'I Ihink these couples have adequately consid- 
ered the conseoucnces. 

We should all contact our Senators and rally 



Receniiy there have been many unexplained forapprovalof this bill. I am outraged at scicnlisls 

dealhs m arumals Ihal have been cloned. trying to create life. In essence, Ihey are 'playing 

In Japan, research shows Ihal only two out ol God.' and Ihcy tiave no right. Creating a human 

12 mice bom apparenlly healthy live more than clone is not a good enough reason to |eopatdi;c an 

800 days. Their experiments show damaged enormous amount of human life, 
immune systems, pneumonia and liver failure. 



Visit 
The Communicator od (I 



Hii-».iludcnl.tpr«.n1uMl 




Public Relations/ Marketing Paid Internship 



Business College seeking molivaled JR or SR with exelleni 

public speaking skills to work with Fon Wayne area tiigh 

schools. Candidales should be available 2-3 full days per 

week and have reliable Iransporlalion 

Mileage reimbursement and possible college credit. 

For consideration, please fax or email your resume to 

Christy Watts at (317) 264-5718 or cwaltstp)ibc-;chQQl.com 



1^ I Campus 
- Calendar 



for April 18-May 1, 2002 



Weigh to Go program : WU G21 , noon; for 
irformation, call 6647 or e-mail tlllapaugh. 
1 B The Ins and Outs of Eating Out. 

25 What to Do if I Slip? 

IB University Religious Forum: 

"Christianity and Ethics in ttie Market- 
place: Local Businessmen Speak Out," 
WU 111. noon; for infomifltlon, call 
6992. 

French and Francophone Film Series: 
ttesiources Humaines (with English 
subtitles), Cinema Center, 7:30 p.m.; 
for information, call 663Z. 

Concerts: NF Recital Hall, 7:30 p.m., (unless 

otherwise noted). 

19 Guitar Ensemble. 

21 Saxophone Quartet, 2:30 p.m. 

24 Woodwind and Brass Quintets, 

26 Spring Choral Concert: Choral ensembles, 
First Wayne Street United Methodist 

27 Faculty Artist Series; James Ator. 
saxophone, 5 p.m. 

29 Community Orchestra: Student Concerto/ 
Aria Competition Winners. 



Testing Services: for Information, call 6600. 
2 PftAX IS{PreproresslonalAsiessmentsfor 
Beginning Teachers), CM lobby, 7:30 a.m. 
24 Institutional SAT (ISAT), KT 1-JB, 10 a.m. 



s: for Information, call 66(10- 



19 



Dinner Series continues April 24, 26, 

30, and May 1; for information, call 

6562 or visit www.1pfw.edu/c(5/ 

d1nneri.htm. 

Arts and Sciences Annual Honors 

Banquet, WU Ballroom, 6 p.m.; for 

information, call 6833. 



24 Debate: Republican candidates for Allen 
County Prosecutor, 7 p.m., CM 159; for 
Information, call 66B6. 

26 Tapestry: A Day for Women, WU, 8 a.m. ■ 
3 p.m.; for information, call 6307. 
Public and Environmental Affairs 
Graduate/alumni reception, Goegleln's, 
5:30-7:30 p.m.; for Information, call 
6351. 

29 Visual Arts' Spring Senior B.F.A. 

Exhibitlon-Viiuol Communicatiort and 
Desisn; continues through May 1 7. 
Openlngreception, May 3, FA gallery, 
6-Bp.m.; for Information, call 6705. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 



I 



Page 4 The Communicafor 



Features 



'Cabaret' entertains audiences, strips injustices 

National performing company production of classic musical keeps piece provocative 



By lenni/OT Hundcy. Stall Writer 

NETworks. a nalioiul perlorming 
company, perlormcd "Caborel" al 
Purdue University's Lalayelie campus 
on Sunday, April 14. The magnificCTil 
cast gave only one performance. 

The IPFW Honors Program spon- 
sored a bus tnp lo Lalayclle to see the 
perlormance. Around 40 IPFW stu- 
dent, lacultv and communily mem- 
bers allendea. 

The pla)^s sellmg consisls of three 
localloTts in and around Rertin: a train 
10 the dly, a reputable boarding house 
and anignl club, the Cabaret. 

The rti^t dub is insinuated lo be a 
siripdub that pitsnoles pnostituUon. Many 
ol the duiactets appear only in lineene. 

The play began with a bit too 
much nudity and sexual innuendo lor 
some people's tasle. Several ol the 
audience members did not return alter 
intermission. It seemed as If it was [ust 
pointless scKuality being flaunted 
around. Several characters were 
bisekual, homosexual or sexually 
irresponsible. Sally Bowles, one of the 
main characters, talked about abortions 



Right before intermission, 
Fraulein Schneider announces her 
engagement to Heir S&lt;iiultz, and is 
informed that she cannot marry him 
because he is not a true German. 

It is thoi that tfie audience disco\-ers 
that Heir Sdiultz is a Jew and thai the 
lime loT this DOrtion of the musical is the 
beginning o( Nazi rule in Germany. 

The other main portion of Uie plot 
is thai an American writer, Oillord 
Bradshaw, is staying at the boardmg 
house run by Fraulein Schneider. 



She is prrgnanl. and although he isn't 
sun; whelher or tiol Ihe baby is his, he 
agrees to lake care ol her and thediild. 

Bradshaiv is the only person ivho 
seems to be bothered that tne mairiage 
between Fraulein Schneider and Heir 
5chult2 is forbidden because he is a Jew. 
The other diarcidcis seem to acoepl the 
problem as a normal part of being Gorman. 
The play ivas quite thought provoking, 
and it look me quite some time after leaving 
lo undcistand ik deeper implicitiaiis. 

The explicit se&lt; that was olfensive 
and seemingly meaningless in the begin- 
ning of Ihp play began lo make sense 



after deep consideration. 

The immoral activities ol 
most of the characters were accept- 
ed without question or judgment 
throughout the play. 



n had It 



) love 



male dressed as a wc 
female. Nobody mmded that. One 
woman was earning her rent 
money as a prostitute. Nobody 
mmded that. One woman had fre- 
quent abortior\s. Nobody minded 
that. When an older spinster and a 
widowed Jew decide to get mar- 
ried, everybody minded. 

Although the play is a com- 
mentary on sodal injustices, it is 
relevant today because many still 
cimg to stereotypical judgments of 
others. TTinrc is il is seen Ihal any 
form of categorization of irdividu- 
a!s is dangerous. 

Unfortunately, if the near 
genocide of Jews in Germany dur- 
ing Nazi occupation did not teach 
society as a whole what discr' 




J?^°a'bly'hal''a po!?; chXt^ofUl '"«'* ^"" relevaril today. 



Photo courtesy of hHp://news. uns.purdue.edu/ 
of "Cabarel" tells gripping stories while exploring social injus- 



Curtain Call 




'Brandon 
Scfvwarze 



Jiaid mid Freeman's per- 
formance makes new film 
worth watching. 



prise when he suddenly 
shces up whal Ihe last 
person jusl said. 

As in his other films 
such fl.s 'T)nving Miss 
Daisy," "Kiss Ihe Giiis" and 
"Sevoi." 1 enjoj'ed watch- 
ing the talented Freeman in 
■■rtigh Crimes.' 

IVhen a character 
like the naive young mil- 
itary altomey Lieutenant 
Embry (Adam Scolt) is 
assigned to defend 
Claire's husband, there's 
nothing to react lo but his 
spooky, slightly ley 
aorearance — he looks 
race in a Marine buzz cut — and 
of whether he's in on the conspir- 
1 alter he becomes involved with 
sister (Amanda Peel), he has no 
independent life as a character, though she 
does provide the occasional airheaded 






"High Crimes" starts out as Ihe tale of laugh; . , ^ . , 

a hi^-powered San Francisco allomey. , Ca^e™'- as the pnotal man on tiiaJ. 

Claire Kubik, played by that mistress of P^^ys his scenes with the nght sweat)' ainbi- 

perky peril. Ashley Judd. Claire thinks Bi^.tutthequeshonmarkatthecenterofhis 

she's got il all, but ti a matter of minutes, periomiaiicc verges on the abstran Cavw^.] 
she Icams that her husband (Jim Cavie^fl) 
vhat he 



Abruptly, Ihe film shifts 
into military courtroom mode, 
where Claire, defending her 
beleaguered male on a murder 
charge, teams up with an engag- 
ingly rumpled attorney (Morgan 

alcoholic, and therefore an ideal 
candidate lor redemption. 

Every 20 minulcs or so, the 
film moiphs into a slranget-in- 
flie-d ark-house suspense ihiiller. 
and then, just because life 
wouldn't be fulfilled olhen,vise. 
It takes a few fast detours into 



_ the abstract. Caviczel 

billed as James Caviczel in last year's 
"Count of Monte Cristo" and was praised in 
my review of Ihal same 
i film. He plays a lovey- 
dovey man of m)'stery 
quite ivell. 



"Freeman's voice is 
so gentle and 
melodious in its 
play tluit it's 
alioays a spry 
siiprise when he 
suddenly slices up 
wliat the Inst per- 
son just snid." 



On a 






1 Wayne 
produc- 



Onein 



ludd might almost be playing a yup- 
pie Erin Brockovich — a woman who takes 
on the monolithic military machine all 
because it threatens her home. 

Freeman, as the fallen great lawyer 
Charlie Grimes, who knows — sadly — 
that he's smarter Ihan everyone around 
him, has the Albert Finney-like role, and I aia"d[ 

grateful for his fine-cured predsi 



watched the Fort Way 
Civic Theatre'! 
lion of "Proposals" by 
Neil Simon on Friday. 
April 12. If every artist 
does indeed have one 
work he is asfiamed of, 
this would be the one 
belonging lo Neil Simon. 

nd act that made me crazy, 
olved the burying ol dead binds and 



id Lois Watkins des&gt; 



whenever he was 

Freeman's voice i? 
dious in its play thai il 



(aster tfian this produi 



lU Soul Revue to celebrate 30 years 



BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (lU News! — On April 
20, Ihe lU Soul Revue at Indiana University 
Bloominglon will present its 30lh anniversarj' con- 
cert. The concert will culmmate a weekend of activ- 
ities mvolving alumni, friends and former directors 
ol the lU Soul Revue, who will return to 
Bloominglon tor the anniversary reunion. 

"One Nation Under a Groove" — based on Ihe 
funk tune recorded by George Clinlon and 
Funkadelic ui 1978 — is the theme ol the concert 
and anniversary weekend. 

Under director Tyion Cooper, the lU Soul 
Revue has become noted for its high energy impec- 
cable musicianship and soulful delivery. The con- 
cert will feature a wide range of selections from Ihe 
group's repertoire. Members begin their asociation 
with the group as students in a class offered by the 
lU d^artment of A(ra-American Studies. 

'The concert will begin at 8 p.m. at the Buskirk- 
Chumley Theatre, 114 E. Kirkwood Ave,, m down- 
town Bloominglon. General admission tickets will 
be S5 for children under 12; S10 for studenis and 



senior dlizens and S15 for adults. Tickets will be 
available at the door or in advance al the African 
American Arts Institute olfice, 812-855-5427. 

Founded in 1971, Ihe lU Soul Revue U one of 
three performance ensembles of the African 
American Arts Institule. located in the new Neal- 
Marshall Black Culture Center at 275 N, Jordan 
Ave., the comer of Jordan Avenue and Seventh 
Slreet- 

Ch'er the last three decades, the lU Soul Revue ■ 
has maintained its repulation as one oi Ihe finest 
collegiale popular music ensembles in America. 

lU Soul Revue performances feature original 
compositions, along with arrangements of works 
recorded by Stevie Wonder; Earth. Wind &amp; Fire; 
Palli LaBelfe; DAngelo; Mary J. Bligc and more. 

The talents ol Ihe lU Soul Revue have not gone 
uruioticed, Michael J. Powell, producer of popular 
recording artists such as Anita Baker and Palli 
LaBelle, said of the ensemble, "1 was pleasantly sur- 
prised at Ihe cohesion of talent, professionalism and 
quality centered within the Soul I?evue " 



ADVERTISE!!! CAII: 481-6583 



Fall Semester IPFW Students 

Would you like to earn some extra 
cash while attending college? 

• Work part-time Jn a fun environment 

• Gain valuable experience 

• Great addition to your resume 

• Able to work around a student's schedule 

• No Experience? No Problem! 

• On the job training available. 



Flexible Hours to Fit Your Class Schedule! 



Q United Art and EducattoniJ 



LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC WORKERS 



JOIN OUR WAREHOUSE TEAM &amp; WORK IN A FRIENDLY ENVIRONMENT. 

I W«rk pari-iine Raw/full-time in the sunner 

I triies incMe iriu filliii; latMn sane ligH lifting tf U SWts.) 
l»irtiiigi[t$7.S« 



Contact Roger: 
I) 478-1121 Monday- Friday 



Jnitec 

\\ Art, and Education | j 
4413 Airport Expressway 





■jp? 


5««&amp; 


'^S 


Ii 


w 


w^ 


1 


^^/ 


s 


i 


m 



The Communicator has available 
the following paid positions: 

• Managing Editor • News Reporters 

• Copy Editor • Ad Sales Reps 

• News Editor • Advertising Manager 

• Photo Editor • Ad Designer 

If interested, please contact Kathy Delagrange at 

481-6584, stop by Waib 215 or 
e-mail stupaper@holmes.ipfw.edu 



April 17. 2002 



Sports 



Page 5Thc Communicator 



Grand Prix back at Purdue 



WEST LAFAYETTE. 
End. - When it tomes to Ihe 
"GrealesI Spectacle in 
College Racing." some alum- 

As many as 20 Purdue 
Univeisily alumiu are 
otpeeted to participate in Ihc 
Grand Prix Alumni Race «i 
Salutday. April 20, al the fcirl 
track noilfi of R(KS-Adc 
Stadium. The 50-lap race, 
held every five years, will 
start at apprrjximalely 1:30 
p.m. The parade will follow 
at approximately 2 p.m., with 
mam race scheduled for a 3 
p.m. start. 

Nine alumni — eight 
from Indiana and one from 
Ohio — have registered so far 
for the race. Yet Josh Morgan, 
alumni race chairman, says 
several more are usuaUy 
standing by, ready to use 
calls that don't qualify for Ihc 



"Al the last alumni r^te 
we had several alumiu step 
up at Ihe last minute." 
Morgan says, 'You never 
know who's going to show 
uponraceday.jumpmacart 
and drive." 

[erry Weida U, on alum- 
nus from IVesl Lafayette, 
Ind.. who graduated m 1991, 
says he can'l wail to get back 
behind the wheel al his alma 

"It should be fun," 
Weida 53&gt;-s. "I lived aboul 
two miles from the go-ltart 
track as a kid. 1 would go 
over and watch them prac- 
tice. That's what sparked an 

Steve Prifogle, an alum- 
nus from Fishers, Ind., says 
he also is looking forward to 
racing a^iiii. 

During my senior year 



in 1999, they had an alumni 
race." PrifogJe sa)-s "I saw 
the fun th^ were having 
and I thought this would be 
the perfect opporturuly to get 
out there and have some mn 

Plaques will be award- 
ed to the fust, second and 
third place hrushers. 

Grand Prix tickets are 
available al Stewart Center, 
Room G2, or by calling (7651 
494-2708. Tickets are $5 m 
advance and S6 at Ihe gate. 

The Purdue Grand Pnx 
Foundation is a shidenl-run, 
nonprofit organization that 
conducts the karl race and 
related evcnls lo raise money 
for shident scholarships. The 
foundadon also receives sup- 
port from Ford Motor Co., 
Coca Cola Co,, Kimberly 
Clark Corp. and Purdue 
Intcfcollegiale Athletics. 



/TT-V^^^ 




STN3 D oAr 3 



lOARD 



Men^ Volleyball 

Saturday 4/12 At Ohio State University 

Sunday 4/13 Al Ball State University 

Baseball 

Wednesday 4/10 TOLEDO 

Saturday 4/13 Al Ohio Unive rsity 

Saturday 4/13 At*' Ohio University 

Softball 

Wednesday 4/10 SAINT FRANCIS 

Wednesday 4/10 SAINT FRANCIS 



LO-3 
LO-3 



L2-3 

L2-7 



W4-2 
Ll-0 



Men's Tennis 

Monday 4/10 SINCLAIR COMMUNITY W 6-1 

Friday 4/12 At Universit)' of Illinois-Chicago " L 0-6 

UPCOMING EVENTS 
Men's Volleyball 

Saturday 4/20 At MIVA Tournament vs. Ohio State 7 p.m. 



Baseball 

Thursday 4/18 

Saturday 4/20 At 

Sunday 4/21 At 

Monday 4/22 

Tuesday 4/23 

Wednesday 4/24 

Softball 

Wednesday 4/17 

Thursday 4/18 

Tuesday 4/23 At 



INDIANA TECH 

Western Illinois 

Western Illinois 

lU-SOUTHEAST 

TAYLOR 

TRI-STATE UNIVERSITY 

VALPARAISO 
INDLA.NA STATE 
University of Toledo 



3 p.m. 
Noon 
Noon 
3 p.m. 

2 p.m, 

3 p.m. 

3 p.m. 
2p,m, 
3p,m. 




Left: Senior MM Blume wails on a 
return before winning his Hnal home 
match as a Mastodon. 



Below tPnV Senior Ulye^ Ha.vsil&lt; 
reaches for a return ,ij;aiii.sl Sincl.iit 
Commonily College la.-.! IVtdnesday, 




Photos byAndmw HowanJ. Sports Editor 



Tennis season finishes 



By Andrew Howard, SporlS Editor 

The men's Icmis season came lo 
an end last Fnday at the University of 
Illinois-Chicago, 

IPFW lost the match in on 
attempt to finish above 500 for the 
year, 0-6. However, Ihe Dons did fin- 
ish their first season in Division I with 
a respectable 8-9 record. 

Assistant Coach Eric Bums is 
pleased with how the team played 
this season. 

"We lost a couple of players 



rest ol the team really sicpped up 
and struggled through aovcrslly 
really welF' 

The Dons fiiushcd their home 
schedule on a high note last 
Wednesday wilh a 6-1 victory over 
Sinclair Community College. 

The final home match proved 
senlimcntal for two of IPFW's team 
members who were playing their 
last home malch for IPFW. Senior 
players lUycs Hassib and Matt 
Blume each finished their home ten- 
nis careers as Mastodons wilh indi' 



Blume was pleased lo go out 
with a win, "I thought 1 played very 
well," Blume said. 

The cmotlOTU of playing his 
final home malch touched Blume. 

"It's hard, this being my last 
(home) match/' said Blume. "It was- 
n't hard to eel up for it, but it was 
nerve wracking before, especially 
after doing it for eight years 

Despite Itie fliiish of his season 
and career, Blume remained upbeat. 

"I'm happy, very happy," said a 
smiling Blume. 



VoUeydons prepare for MIVA 



Ending Ihe season wilh Iwo corueculive road loss- 
es to nationally ranked teams, the IPRV's men's volley- 
ball leam must now begin preparing to head lo Ohio 
Slate on Saturday for the first round of the MIVA 

The Dons are coming off lough losses lo the 
Buckeyes. (30-18, 30-21. 30-24) and Ball State (30-18. 30- 
21, 30-25) to end their regular season. The Dons finished 
the regular season wilh a 8-15 record overall and 6-10 in 
the MIVA. I 

Of receni, the VoUeydons have been hindered by 
the loss of one of their key players. Angel Ruiz, who is 
nursing a broken Ihumb. 

Ruiz, a junior, led the leam this season ivilh over 
400 kills and an average of 4,95 kills per game. Despite 
his rcconl, Ruiz has seen very little time in IPFW's last 
three matches. 

Ruiz altempled lo play in last Friday's loss lo Ohio 
Slale but was in loo much pain, according to Head 
Coach Amie Ball. Ruw then sat out Saturday's game 
against Ball State. 

"His (Ruiz's) thumb is a day-to-day thine," Ball said. 

Ball feels the leam really needs Ruiz for Ihe lour- 
namcnl when they take on a leam that had beaten them 
a little over a week earlier, 

"It all really depends on Angel," said Ball, "If he's 
able to play and play al a hi^ level, then 1 think i " 
have a cliancf ■ - ' ■^•"■ 




o be very compchtiv 



ivilh Ohio State." 
-It 



Ball has' been impressed with some ol his players 
that have stepped up m Ruiz's absence. He feels that 



Photo by Andrew Howard. Sports Editor 
Head Coach Amie Ball talks with Josh Sanders and 
Dennis Santiago during the malch al Ball State. 

Nicli Belman and Milch Dreisbach tiave improved their 
game of lale. 

Those are Ihc Iwo guys, I think, who have al least 
improved Iticir game a little bit in Angd's abxrvx." Ball said. 

In their viclory over IPFW Sahirdsy nighl, Ball 
Slate secured its tilst MIVA Regular Season 
Championship and their first title since 1997. 



ACTIVISM (260)-423-4492 

SUMMER JOBS 

For the Environment 

Like Clean air/water? 

Make a dilTerence now. 

• Love your Job! 

•Wear shorts! 

•Get up at t2PM 

$350Mk, 2-10:30p.m., 

Mon.. Fri., www.dtact.org 



PLEaSE RECVCIE THIS NEWSPAPER 







Up (□ 56,0 

Up ID too* College Tuition 

Monlgomcry Gl Bill 
Einlleni l^y &amp; Rctiicmcflt 
ihr Indiana Nmionat Cuara 
Fl Wayne (Nonh) 

2«WW.1S0S 

Fl Wayne (South) 

432-7724 or 459-7771 

lo find out hov "Vou Can" 




Check US out!! 
www, homecityice.coni 

GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITIES!! 

HI ling ICudfnU Pmrt-Tlnn HOW and fuU-Tlm* DurtnaJumnut' B&gt;b»»u 

Flexible Hours &amp; GREAT PAY!! 



$6.50-$12.00-t-/HOUR 

800-622-6566 

Ft. Wayne/ North Webster 

Great Part-Time Hours Avallablell Work Around Your 
Scliool Sctiedule with Morning/Afternoon and 

Weekend Hours. Call Todayl 
No experience Necessary. ii*c w^ « boA "uv^ voa 



BdwAil* MO Inlanlvw KSJLP. «rtng ■ FrMndl 

wvtfw.homecityice.com 




]ij SPOUTS 

"•• mmasi 



If'mlemtei 



260-481-6584 



Thttmmnlaloi 
WottUiiieBRin.215 



Page 6 The Communicator 



Sports 



IPFW sports 
excite the 
smallest fan 

A Utile over a month ago, T was 
mode sporls editor of The 
CommuniiMtor. Since thai time I have 

"^^Beyond ^TpTrf^V 
THE Bleachers ph^o?ogra 

Bv Andrew Howard phw, specta- 
tor and fan to 
allend nearly 20 limes Ihc number of 
sporting events 1 had atlCTided in my 
pfcvious two .ind a half years al IPFW. 

games and malche?, 1 was angry at 
, myself for not paying more personal 

atlcntion and giving more support to 
1 IPPW'b sports in the pasl. Angry that 1 

enjoy quaJily enlerlaininEnt, Angry at 
»lf the limfs Ihal 1 sat with my friends, 

' oplions for a good lime in Fort Wayne. . 
1 . I now wish to beckon my fdJowJ 
' daismalra al IPFW to not make flielV 
I tame mistake 1 made. These gamesjl 
and matches arc a pure joy to watch. -1 
1 In one hour. 1 watched as our basebaU j 
( and Softball teiuns' games went into &gt; 
1 extra Innings. 

' - Ailend an event and you Will 
1 quirkly find yourself infected with ihe 
conl.i^if us enlliusiasm of Uie playets, 
Ihe patonis and the fans. 

These are nol your overpaid 

mulli-niillion.iire athletes. They arc 

not yout cybEr&lt;on trolled Playstation 

corloons. They anr your fellow dass- 

' mates. They sil ncit (o you in class, 

1 walk b^ you in the parking lot. They 

iKOgnize your face in Ihe crowd. Bui 

beyond all, Uiey are athletes playing a 

game, doing what thev love otily 

1 because they love it and doing whal . 

, Ihey do besL 

This campus reeks of bzy indi- i 
viduiLs who preach and hope for a , 
larger campus life, yet sit at home , 
when Iheii teams need their support.l 
urge you nol to make Ihe same mis- , 
lake Imade. Go to a game. 1 promise 
you won't regret il. 


1 y 


h^BWBBtj^ 


^s^j^aB! _» 


i^iJul^— ^- ■■ 


«M^^:=n=; 


PHoto ty Andrew Hovjard, Sporls Editor 
Sophomore Mark Simanski tries to out a slow grounder 
back to the pitcher in the bottom of the ninth against Toledo. 

Dons push on 

[!v Andrvw Howard, Sports Edilor Gemon was especially dis- 

IPFW's baseball team suf- al a home game. 
l.^red two disappoijilmg losses "Oneof qui major go,il5 this 
on Saturday to Ohio University, year was to protect our home turf 
edending their losing sireak to and to win al home." Gemon 
three. said. 'This was Ihe only Division 

Before heading into a series 1 home game because of Ihe Iran- 
against Ohio, the [Jons feUshort in sition (to Division I)." 
adoseextrainningslosstoToledo The Mastodons' misfor- 

Freshman pitcher Kellan on their Irip to Ohio University 
Marshall had another slelbr per- Ihis past weekend, 
ioimance m his outing against Game one went to the 
Toledo.allowingonlytwocamed Bobcats as IPFW let Ohio score 
TUBS and seven hits in over eight five m the sixth to take the score 
innings pitched. to 7-2 where it would slay 

■It's indicative of (vhy he's Game two would yield the 
in the lop 50 m Ihc nation nghl same results for the Dons as Ihe 
now in Division 1 in ERA," said Bobcals scored five in the fifth to 
IPFW's Head Coach Billy goup5-2.IPFWnamjwedlhegap 
Gemon. who was very happy toM, but would then allow tlwe 
Jboul Marshall's performance, mow nms lo Ohio, losing B-t. 

Cetnon, however, was not Game three on Sundav was 
h.ippy wilh his team's overall looking promismg for the Dons 
[XTlormance in Ihe loss. until rain caused a cancellation 

■ I thoughl our offense came of the game in the fillh wilh 
fo the park anhdpaling a good IPFW leading M. IPFW will 
outmg bv Marshall." Gemon host Indiaru Tech on Thutsday 
said, "and Ihat only a couple of al 3 p.m. 
mns would be needed." Gemon says Ihey won't 

The came slipped away dwell on their tosses, 
from IPFW m the tenlh when "We jusi gotta gel allcr II 
Toledo pulled ahead 3-2 as pitcher and keep moving ahead," 
DaWd Zachary beaned Toledo's Cemonsaid. 
J D Foust with bases loaded lo 
bring in the go-ahead run. 



Little 500 redirects money 

BLOOMINGTON. Ind. (lU News) scholarships lo memonatize victims of 
Indiana Univereily's Ultle 500 began 52 Ihc Sept. 11 terrorist attacks who have ties 
years ago as a way to raise scholarship lo lU and lo honor the courage and corn- 
money for working students and create milmenl of ail Americans. The first 9-11 
awareness ol Ihe lU Foundation among Scholarships wdl be presented Sepl. 11 as 
sludenls. Today, il ls known as the pre- part of lU's ohser\'ance of Patriots" Day 
mier intramural collegiate cycling event Since 1951. the lU Student 
in Uie nalion. Foundation has iiied the race and other 

Thui year, however, lU students student aclivihcs to raise money for slu- 

competmKinlherunnineof IheLillleSOO deni scholarships. This year, proceeds 

n Fnday andSaturday (Apnl from race aclivitics— which typically 



19-20) will Iw riding (or 
half&lt;entur)' 



glo. 



ally for 



... support J4 scholarships a .. _, .,. 

id becoming part of the hislory of workmg lU students— will be used (or 

._. — campus Iradition J - - ■ ■■ — 

Breakmg Away." 



idition depicted three n 



s wdl be creating three r 




Photo by Andrew Howard. Sports Edilor 

Sunday in the Sun 

During a pick-up volleyball game on campus last Sunday, BOphomorcs 
Brianne Gilford and Derek Domenico try to avoid running in to one another. 



4 



'Heed a New Campus 
Advertising "Tack" -tic? 

The Communicator has special rates 

for on-campus organizations! 

Please call Ella for advertising: 481-6583 



The Communicator on the web www.student.iDlw.edu/-stUDaDer 



SUMMER JOB OPENINGS AT MANPOWER 

Have fun making ice cream! 

Manpower is Accepting Applications 

from recent grads and college students 

For ice cream production at 

Edy's Grand Ice Cream 

If you like working as a team, Making $9.00 an hour, 

and want free ice cream while you work apply today! 

" Must be 18. 

MANPOWER 

817 S. 13ih St. Suile B • Decatur. IN 46733 

Phone: (260) 728-4401- lisa roemergna.manpower.com 




Come See Patricia Russell 
at Ft. Wayne Nissan Today! 

Moxima $1000 Cosh Back or Spedal APkcood nm 
Palhfinder $1000 Cuti Back ^ SpetiolAPR '""^""'' 

Just Good Quality Vehicles Froin| 
People You Can Trust 



^^2002 SENTRA 



CRAD 
CASH 

$500! 



2002 ALTIMA 



CAR 
OF THE 
YEAR! 



FortWiyaelOnu 

ftpnpiredtogtve 

ALLIPFWGRADS 

aNurVtUde! 

Vp (0 6 mos. bf fore 

yoDgradute! 

*Nd Cosher Needed! 
'MOPaymeats 

brPODiyj! 

WE GET YOU DONE! 



2002 XTERRA 



:a3ssaoa 



4909 Lima Rd. 

260-484-9500 or 800-635-7846 




2002 FRONTIER 

- . CUSTOMER 

n CASH BACK 

SIOOO plia 

CRAD CASH 

$500! 



