Indiana University • Purdue University • Fort Wayni 



The Communicator 



| Another lawsuit 

Workers complain aboi 
Common Wage Scale 



IKKinF* BAnotner lawsuit a Baseball/Softball Previews ■ Finding time for art 

I M _&gt;l L/ L . Workers complain about The sports staff takes a look at Custodian enjoys working 



the upcoming spring s 



Volume 34, Issue 19 



www.ipfwcommunicator.org 



Wednesday, February 1 1 , 2004 



Connection 



Two IPFW stu&lt; 
met, married vl 
56K Internet moi 



Hit or miss in a smoky 
bar or double click in a 
chat room. 

Not surprisingly, 
and more people are chooS' „ 
ing to look for love online. 
Although then; is --till a bit of a 
stigma about meeting people 
online and posting persona) 
ads, with more than 45 millior 
Americans visiting daring 
the stigma is fading. 

Stefanie Powell, a fresh- 
man at IPFW, who met her hus- 
band Joe online. 

"The Net is great for peo- 
ple with low self esteem, it's a 
good way to get to know each 
other without the stress of hav- 
ing to physically please any- 
one," she explained. 

Many people visiting these 
sites are worn out by the bar 
scene, are tired of being set up 
by friends and relatives, or are 
just too shy to feel comfortable 
making the first move. 

It is not just 20 something's 
looking for a hookup anymore 
either. With the divorce rate 
higher than ever, newly singles 
join the web-hunt for new love. 
What better way to find an 




'/(We j''"' l'l&gt;; 

IPFW students Joe and Stefanie Powell met and 
married online a year ago — something more anc 
pies are doing. 



match, when there I' 
are 45 million people \\ 
to chose from, not just '\v 
the hundred or so that 
happened to be at the bar 
that night. 

There are online serv 



c t can narrow it down to specifics. 
Fields include height, color of 
eyes, location, religion, drink- 

i Continued t 



i Page 2 






Jdate.com for Ji 
BlackPlanetLove. 
like yahoo personal 




Living a life of diversity 



For B.D. Wong, "diversity" is more than a buzz- 

"I really identify with diversity issues," said 
Wong. 

The actor, whose acting repitore ranges from 
Broadway to television "uniquely reflect(s) the com- 
plexity of American society," according to Larry Life, 
chair of the Theatre department. Life hailed Wong as 
an actor who "helped re-cast American performing 
art." Wong, whose recent roles include Dr. Huang on 
"Law and Order: Special Victims Unit" and Father Ray 
Mukada on the HBO series "Oz," is on tour to promote 
his book "Following Foo: The Electron Adventures of 
the Chestnut Man." On Feb. 9, 2004, Wong spoke 
before an IPFW audience as part of the Omnibus 
Lecture Series. 

"I'm pleased to see many of you braved the cold," 
said Chancellor Michael Wartell in his opening 
address to the audience. 

Rather than use a planned speech, the actor com- 
mented that he wanted to "talk about experiences" 
growing up with a dual identity and as his struggle 
as an Asian American actor in the entertaiment busi- 

"I want to say that I'm very happy to articulate 
some of this .. and use it to talk about diversity in gen- 
eral," he commented. 

Wong grew up in San Francisco, a city he con- 
sideres "a tremendous place to grow up," and "embod- 
ies what I consider a very American landscape," he 

His part'nN. thud generation Chinese Americans, 
lived "a truly-hyphenated experience," balancing the 
traditional Chinesse wavs with the new American cul- 
ture his parents experienced in school. In contrast, 
Wong recalled that he and his siblings "resisted 
becoming Chinese." 

"They worked their tails off supporting us," said 
Wong. 

Wong said his childhood opposition to learning 




by Scott M. Lah 
Actor and activist B.D. Wong spoke to 
IPFW Monday night as a part of the 2003 
2004 Omnibus Lecture Series. 



his heritage is ,i regret, and he plans to ensure that his 
own son, whom he raises with his partner Richie 
Jackson, will not miss out on the opportunity. 

"He's going to Chineese school — and I'm going 
with him," said Wong. 

The actor related his earliest memories of the 
, and how they shaped his perception of 



Vietnam 
himself. 

"I did not understand what I was experience fully 
until I looked back mi it," said Wong. Asa young man, 
the protary of Asian Americans on television was 
either "non-exsistent" or in a negative light, according 
to the actor. 

"They weren't pleasant images to 
young boy," he reflected. 

Continued on Page 2 



IPFW questions 
'Superfan' as 
criminal past 
re-examined 



Following a Jan. 23 incident at 
Grace College in Winona Lake, 
lnd„ IPFW Police and Safety issued 
a Campus Safety Alert this week 
concerning a long-time fan of local 
athletic events, including IPFW. 

The alerts were posted 
throughout campus and sent to all 
student and faculty email accounts 
Feb. 6. 

More than one newspaper has 
featured him as a fan's favorite 
type of fan. His enthusiasm can be 
heard throughout the Allen 
County War Memorial Coliseum, 
or the baseball field of the Fort 
Wayne Wizards, or Gates Center. 
To many, he's known by the 
moniker "Superfan." 

Jerry K. Hillegas, 37, of 
Roanoke allegedly approached 
Grace College female students on 
two different days, asking them lor 
directions and ultimately asking it 
they would get in his car. It is 
behavior that caused GC officials 
to announce an advisory about 
him to students in 2002 - an advi- 
sory from which two students rec- 
ognized him. 

He has previously been told 
he will face charges of criminal 
trespassing after allegedly asking 
high school girls in Warsaw into 
his vehicle on school property 

Police there allege it is suspi- 
cious behavior for a man who once 
pled guilty to criminal confine- 
ment and rape. 

And in the days of preemp- 
tive action for the sake of safety, 
Grace College officials spoke with 
Hillegas and told him that -- like 
Warsaw Community Schools — if 
he comes back to the private 
school, he will be charged with 
criminal trespassing. 

IPFW officials were apparent- 
ly unaware of Hillegas' past, and 
noted they are taking a cautious 
approach to the situation. On one 
hand, IPFW is a pubb'c school and 
cannot bar anyone because of 
activity elsewhere. On the other, 
they are eyeing more closely his 
behavior while he is on campus. 

Campus officials discussed 
the situation Monday. IPFW Police 
Chief Lauren DenHartog noted a 
guarded position about Hillegas' 
presence. 

"We just wanted everybody to 
be aware that the possibility exists 
- he's here a lot and he's caused 
some problems at Grace College," 
DenHartog said. 

On Saturday and Monday, 
Hillegas declined comment polite- 
ly, indicating he may make a state- 
ment about the controversy later 
this week. 

He is listed in the Indiana Sex 
and Violent Offender Directory 
managed by the Indiana Criminal 
Justice Institute. Hillegas pled 
guilty to rape and criminal confine- 




tern, includ- Schools 
ing a charge suspi&lt; 



In 1986, he 
confinement P ,e , d 8 ui1 ^ »° ra P c 
in 1996 a criminal con- 

which was fi"&gt;™ent. 

dismissed a 

few days after his arrest and a 1991 
charge of battery for which he was 
sentenced lo a year in Huntington 
County jail. Allen County 
Courthouse records also indicated 
a variety of speeding offenses 

Continued on Page 3 

Police: 
crime 
spike 
not a 
concern 



According to the recent 
October-December 20U3 Police and 
Safety Report, certain crime rates 
have risen when compared to 
those of the previous year. 

Among those are: Burglary (1 
as compared to 0), Disorderly 
Conduct (4 as compared to 0), 
harassment (4 as compared to 2), 
vandalism (5 as compared to 1), 
personal theft (19 as compared to 
11), and university theft (8 com- 
pared to 3). 

Although the increases were 
relatively small, they were enough 
to spark some curiosity as to 
whether or not this spike in crime 






eforc 



According to IPFW Police Chief 
Lauren D DenHartog, although 
there has been an increase in cer- 
tain reported crimes, there is no 
major cause for concern. He said 
that there is generally a pattern of 
fluctuation at the university, and 
over the past few years, the crime 
rate has both risen and fallen. 

DenHartog said that himself 

Continued on Page 3 




A&amp;E reviews the 
newest take on 
Joseph playing at 
Tfie Civic Tlieatre 



Joseph and the dreamcoat page 6 




amy gearlds feature 



Senior Amy Gearlds 
reaches a landmark 
achievement in her 
basketball career 




News 



Page 2 The Communicator 



February 1 1 , 2004 



Program 
to seek 
best of 
campus 






Psst. Hey, can you Bee 'em com- 
ing? Can you see those revitalized 
bi-pedal proboscidian mammals of 
genius and the genus Mammut, 
sporting flashy blazers, brighl 
lapels and representing IPFW at 
home and abroad sitting at the 
right hand of 1PPW Chancellor 
Michael Warlell7 

Well, if not now, Ihe IPFW 
academic body soon will as 
Sludent Life Office unveils the new 
student organi; 
aptly called The Ambassadc 

The concept, created by a con- 
sensus-driven group led by 
Director of Student Life Lori Beth 
Miller, The Ambassadons will con- 
sist of students with a grade point 
average of 3.0 or higher and a class 
standing of sophomore on up. 
Their departments Will select the 
exclusive IPFW assembly. 

"The Ambassadons will be 
unique as far as campus service 
organizations go," Miller said. 
'They will be hosting campus vis- 
its by VIPs like speakers for the 
Omnibus Lecture Series and will 
be attending civic Functions repre- 
senting the university. There will 
be travel opportunities to repre- 
sent IPFW at other various aca- 
demic and civic functions across 
the a'gion and beyond," she con- 
tinued, 

Initially there is to be a core 
group "I \2 Students selected from 
the student body. 

"They will represent the best 
of the best ol our Student body and 
relected IPFW's diversity and 

higher learning. Miller said. 

A request for nominees has 
already been sent out to every aca- 
demic department by the 
Chancellor's office and nomina- 
tions must be submitted by Friday, 
Feb.13. 

The selection process will 
consist of the initial nominatin of 
the student by their respective 
department an application is to be 



tilled ■ 






i to 

nees will be appointed official 
Ambassadons at the Student 
Achievement Awards Banquet 
held on April 6. Ambassadons will 
serve for a one year period and 
will have to renew their applica- 
tion every year. 

"This is a wonderful opportu- 
nity for outstanding students to 
represent IPFW at home and 
abroad," Miller said. 

Helping the inception of the 
program were Laura Harmon in 
the Office of Admissions; Doug 
Neitzel in Academic Counsellor 
and Career Services; Patrick 
Laughlin in the Office of 
Registration; Chris Douse of the 
Office of Multi-Cultural Services 
and Audrey Moore of Ihe Student 
Life Office. 

Any questions can be directed 
to the Student Life Office in Walb 
Union. The number for the office is 
481-6609. 



Building troubles: another lawsuit added 



nong 



While construction workers 
continue with the final phases of 
the new student housing of IPFW, 
tlii' hoi Id in); silk (infractors contin- 
ue to deal with their own legal 
troubles. 

The Indiana Occupational 
Safely and Health Administration 
fined five subcontractors over 
$110,000 for safety violations at the 

A total of three Fort Wayne 
based subcontractors were 
assessed fines for IOSHA citations, 
ncluding AFB Employment 
Services, LL&amp;B, and Pettigrew &amp; 
Sons. AFB was dealt a $11,500 fine; 
LL&amp;B a $fi,450 fine; and Pettigrew 
&amp; Sons a $6,900 fine. 
Two carpentry contractors, Kajn 
era and Better Builders, were 
dealt the largest urn's for a variety 



included fire hazards of materials, 
a lack of fire protection, improper 
use of scaffolding and workers 
improperly secured to safety lines 
when working from heights. 

Both contractors were 
assessed fines of about $43,001). 
Those two subcontractors are sis- 
ter companies based in Texas, 

The fines were handed out 
on the same week that more 
workers filed legal at lion against 
Hough Drywall and WM Builders 
contractors. Construction site 
workers have claimed they were 
underpaid by the subcontractors 
what they were entitled to under 
the Common Wage Law in effect 
with the project. 

The original lawsuit, filed in 
October, has been settled out of 
court. Tile six workers involved in 




File Photo 

In this file photo, the student housing is being built in 
October. The new facilities have been the source of legal 
■angling. 



In the new lawsuit, four n 



ore due to open for the fall of 2004 
not according to IPFW officials, with 

that action received back wages, paid in accordance with Common over 550 beds available. 

their attorney's fees paid and dam- Wage Law. 

ages from the companies involved. The new student housing is 



More couples are finding a Connection Online 



Do these relationships 
Like all relationships 
sometimes no. 

There are stones like Slef.ime Powell' 



from Page 1 - 

ing and smoking preferences, whether or not heartbreak it causes are considered common- Internet is for you? Most online dating servic- 
they'd like to have children, and many other place. es allow free posting and browsing of ads, or 
tools for narrowing the search. On So why risk being lied to or falling lor log into a Special interest chat room. 
el larmony.com, Ihe site boosts of using scien- someone thousands of miles away? People are Chat rooms are considered by some as a 
tifii mat. bine, to identify Ihe 2 1 ' dimensions of having a harder time meeting lovers in rradi- great way to meet people without necessarily 
compatibility with prospective mates. In then- donal places, Professor Norvel Glenn of the making the first move, or letting others know 
ry there is someone out there for everyone. University of Texas explained. you're on the prowl. Special interest rooms 
Two or three decades ago most couples allow people to meet who already share simi- 
met in high school or college and married lar interests, there are chat rooms for every- 
soon after. Now many people choose to marry thing, religion, movie lovers, American Idol; 
later in life and few social institutions have the list is never ending. Having similar pas- 
She met her husband on a gaming site, drove filled the void that family and schools used to. sions is important in every relationship, spe- 
tO Fort Wayne (from where) to meet him 12 Other people choose to use the Internet cial interest chat rooms are ideal for insuring 
hours later, and married him a week later. because of the control if otters. You can browse that thev like Japanese amine |ust as much as 

Next month, they celebrate their first through hundreds of people and choose who you do. 

anniversary. you want to. If the conversation isn't going Like everything in life, use caution. If the 

But it can take hundreds of e-mails and well, end it or block them, no reason to sit person sounds too perfect, you're probably 

dates with Mr. Wrong to find an even Mr. through a whole miserable date. The relation- right. People still do lie about themselves. 

Maybe. Common fears of internet love are ship can go as slow or as fast as it feels com- According to a recent article in The New York 

typical. People do lie online, whether it is fortable, a few e-mails a week or meeting and Times, one-fifth of online daiers are married 

about appearance, marital status, whole iden- falling in love that day. men, 
tities, or the fact that they are serial killers. Ironically, online dating brought a revival 

A Virginia woman is suing a woman for to courtship, allowing new restraints on rela- 
personality fraud online. Margaret Hunter tionships that permit the relationship to devel- 
thought she found the man of her dreams, a op gradually. In some ways traditional dating 
businessman seeking love before he died of rules apply on the web, men still always make 

complications of AIDS, but after four months the first contact and the woman controls the importantly, relationship experts say, have fun 

of marriage discovered that her prince charm- pace of the relationship. Perhaps because of with it. Online daring can be a way to social- 

ing Was actually a woman named Holly in dis- the similarities and control online dating Lze, meet people, and at the very least have a 

guise. offers, the new dating scene is now computer- laugh. 

Stories like Hunter's might be to the ized. Or find a spouse, like Stefanie did. 
extreme, but being lied to, along with the How can you be sure that finding love on the 

Wong speaks about his life and diversity to IPFW 



But for most people, it just a more com- 
fortable wav to gel over their shyness and they 
egenerailv jusi looking lor a good conversa- 
m. Don't give out your personal information 
unless you're completely comfortable. Most 



from Page 1 



"1 was told that white was better - that sounds really harsh but that's 
what 1 was told," said Wong. 

Wong discovered acting as a young man, and the guidance of a 
supportive teacher helped him gain confidence as an actor. 

"I was very aware of my own confidence," said Wong, "It was very 
clear that .. I was not interested in thing Bother boys were interested 
in," he reflected. 

His drama coach gave Wong the opportunity to play major roles in 
high school productions that were not usually given to Asian 
Americans. 

"I was attracted to performing," he said, but commented that he 
remained "naieve" about the "real world of casting." 

"This was going to be a real issue for me," he said. Wong related 
years of attempting to deny his Asian heritage. 

"1 still have issues with how I am treated as an actor in this indus- 
try," said Wong. "I wanted to be in something that fundamentally rejects 
me," he further elaborated. 

"I was pushing away that which makes me who 1 am," he said. 

After moving to Los Angeles and taking several Stereotypical 
roles, he earned a role in the Brodvvay production "M. Butterfly," a pro- 
duction Wong hailed as "a first for the Asian American community. He 
commented that he found a script where "his ideas were the same as 
mine," and an acting coach helped him grow as an actor. 



"I was extremely lucky — that was the seminal moment ... [the) 
breakdown of ... self loathing," said Wong. 

Wong also talked about his work in television. 

"To getaijob on a TV show is murder," said Wong. In Los Angeles, 
it was a "whole other world," according to the actor. 

While his recent television roles on Oz and Law and Order were 
successful, he also commented on the failure of the Marget Cho televi- 
sion comedy "All-American Girl," the first Asian American sitcom on 
the ABC television network. 

The show "was not unwelcome - it was bad - Margaret Cho 
would have said that," said Wong. The show was "not true to its own 
heart," and "they turned (Cho) into something she was not," said Wong. 
On the subject of diversity on television, Wong said, "we're not going 
backwards necessarily," according to the actor. 

Diversity "is much less on the horizon for TV than theatre," he said, 
because of the commercial-driven properties of television networks. 
Wong took several questions from the audience and encouraged those 
in attendance to get outside their "comfort zone(s)" and participate in 

"Getting out of yourself is always a good thing," said Wong, who 
also said that diversity was an "issue" in the Midwest. 

"It's been a long road ... to a full understanding of how great 
things can be," said Wong. 



Editorial Board Contact Us Editorial Policy 



Scott M. Lawson, Editor 

S.G. Wahlberg, Managing Editor 

Dan Vance, News Editor 

Kurtis Meyers, Arts &amp; Entertainment Editor 

Nick West, Sports Editor 

Katie Pruitt, Copy Editor 

Alicia Layton, On Campus Editor 

K.E. Casey, Chief Reporter 

Amanda Pierce, Advertising Manager 

Josh Vargas, Advertising Designer 

Dorie Reynolds, Publisher 



The Communicator 
Walb Union; Suite 215 
2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

Editor: (260)481-6584 

Publisher: (260) 481-6585 

Advertising: (260)481-6583 

Fax: (260)481-6045 



s expressed do ... 
ly reflect the views of IPFW, its 

employees (ir its slude.nl body. A 
column is solely the opinion of 



All submissions made via e- 
mail will be verified by tele- 
phone or in person. Addresses 
and telephone numbers will not 
be published. 

submissions must be typed. 



a I or wel- 400 \ 



double-spaced and r 



responses from readers. 
. to ihe Editor and guest 
is must be signed, dated 
companied by 



,r&lt;5s 



&gt;re than 



The editorial board of The 
Communicator reserves the 
right to edit all submissions lor 
length, enimin;u. si\le uud elar- 
iiv.'Leifers deemed" libelous bv 



■'ill . 



be 



www.ipfwcommunicator.org tSSS^^S 



February 1 1 , 2004 



News 



The Communicator Page 3 



IPFW eyes activities of 'Superfan' 



from Page 1 



throughout the last decade. 

The school didn't have a choice in issu- 
ing the alert. Federal law mandates it, the 
chief explained. The alert was sent out for all 
students and staff to be aware, he said, and 
the chief isn't worried about any reaction 
Hillegas may have to the widely-decimated 
fliers and web page alerts. 

Officials aren't worried about issuing 
the alert or the concept of facing a defama- 
tion lawsuit from Hillegas. Their priority is 
safety, not exposing Hillegas' criminal past, 
Vice Chancellor for Financial Affairs Walter 
Branson indicated. 

"That's (litigation) always a possibility 
Part of what we have to follow is the 
Campus Security Act ... that act requires us 
to put out an alert if we think there could be 
a problem," Branson said, reiterating 
DenHartog's statement. 

Despite the situation at Grace College, 
IPFW is allowing him on campus - for now. 

"We're just following what the universi- 
ty lawyers recommend we do. That's what 
we have to go by," DenHartog said. 

Branson concurred. 

'To ask somebody to leave our campus, 
the person has to do something to us," 
Branson said. 

DenHartog also noted that IPFW police 
couldn't send out information on everyone 
who has spent time in prison as they walk 
onto campus. In theory, former inmates 
should be treated similarly to every other cit- 

"Just because somebody has a past like (Dan Vance, Nick West, Justin Butts and Tony 
that doesn't mean we need to put out a secu- Maurer of The Communicator contributed to this 
rity alert. It's when the other actions come in. report 



Theoretically, these people - they are on the 
SL-x offender registry. They have served their 
time and hopefully are reformed," he said. 
"But some of the other actions - like the ones 
at Grace - make you start to worry," the chief 
added. 

IPFW Athletic Director Mark Pope 
declined comment on the situation, referring 
questions to police and legal authorities at 
the university. 

It came as a shock to some students 
when it was revealed through campus emails 
and posted at 

wwwphyplt.iphv.edu/police/safeal.htm. 

"I see him at the games all the time, and 
I thought he was a real avid supporter of 
IPFW athletics," Student Body President 
Matt Shilling said Monday But now, he won- 
ders if the man known for his boisterous 
cheering for IPFW athletes may have an ulte- 
rior motive. 

Or, possibly, it could be Hillegas is 
receiving a bad reputation for a few miscon- 

"To our knowledge, he's never encoun- 
tered anybody in a harmful way," Shilling 
said. "But that doesn't mean you can i 
look him either." 

And IPFW police won't be, DenHartog 
said. Since it's public property, he can't b 
kept off campus. But he also will be bright o 
their radar. 

"We're watching him awful close, 
DenHartog noted. 



Busy quarter for police not surprising 

from Page 1 

and his department are alu a\ s coikvi m\l, and the prvk'rrvd numbers are zero, but IPFW is 

/ery safe campus Cause tor concern would spread i! the number ol violent crimes were to 

np from essentially a non-existent level to larger, or it the theft numbers continued to rise. 

Chief DenHartog said, that in Minn 1 main cases a report does not necessarily mean an 

rest. Disorderly conduct reports, hi- vm1 ivpn .ilh mvoh e someone simply causing a scene 

Many times the issue is resolved without the need of an arrest, They occur more frequently 

during times of stress, such as when money is tight People may be upset because a financial 

aid check lias not come, or .in unevpe. led bill has. 

Personal theft was the highest among reported crimes, increasing to l'l this past fall. Chief 
DenHartog said that it was hard to really do anything to curb personal Ihett, since it usually 
involved a crime of opportunity, such as a purse or backpack left on a bench, and things of 
that sort. 

Although IPFW is a fairly safe campus, Cliiel DenHartog made sure to emphasize that, "it can 
happen here." His advice to students was to simply hang on a little tighter Make sure that 
purses and backpacks are not left lying around, and that people keep their doors locked on 

Police Notes for February 1-9 

A vehicle was vandalized in Parking Lot No. 2 near the Engineering and 
Technology Building on Feb, 6. A window was broken out. IPFW Police are investigating. 

IPFW Police responded to a fight thai took place between two students on the 
ground floor of Kettler Hall on Feb. 6, The situation has been turned over to the IPFW 
Dean of Students. 



THE COMMUNICATOR 



CANCUN^j^wtiSi^ 



SPRING BREAK 



4&amp;5 Night Packages 



BEACHFRONT HOIELwm. r/t Air * «*BS"* ' , ""'* *"'*" 
include^ MEALS AND 3 NIGHTS ALL-INCLUSIVE CLUB ACCESS. 



1-800-SURFS-UP 

www. stud entexDress.com 



w: 



IPFW 



Campus w 
Calend 




12 SAB event: Comedian Jon Reep, "The 
Hemi Guy" from Dodge, WU Ballroom, 
noon-1 p.m.; for information, call 6590. 

Fitness class: Weigh to Go.. .The BEST 
Fitness Plan, GC, noon-1 p,m.; for 
information, call 6647 ore-mail 
tillapau@iprV.-edu. 

13 Women's tennis vs. Dayton, GC, 6 p.m. 



Black History Month events ; for 

information, call 6608. 

13 Talent Showcase, "Expression Session," 

NF 101,6 p.m. 
1 8 Fort Wayne's "Firsts" Exhibition and 

Reception, WU Ballroom, 6:30 p.m. 



Men's volleyball. GC, 7 p.n 
13 Clarke. 



Lunch with no IPFW Scientist: 

David R. Bell, "How Do We Stay Aliv 
Science Central, 1 1 :30 a.m.-l p.m.; % 1 
n on members: $6, members. For 
reservations, call 260^124-4200. 



16 Monday Spanish Table — Come e 
talk with us! (Vengan a conversar &gt; 
comer con nosotros!), WU lounge, i 
for information, call 4660. 



1 7 Honor* Program: Lunch Talk: William 
Bruening, "Tough Decisions and the End 
of Life," KT G35, noon-I p.m.; for 
information, call 6924. 



tor Feb. 12-18, 2004 



18 Coi lege- Level Examination Program 
(CLEP), KT 232, 8:30 a.m.; for 
information, call 6600. 
Wednesdays at One! "BRIO: Queries, 
Listserv, and Training," KT G46, 1- 
2 p.m.; for information, call 6129. 
CELT workshop for faculty: Writing 
Assignments that Work. KT 1 78. 3- 
4:30 p.m.; to register, call 4 1 26 or e-mail 
hanelins@ipftv.edu. 

"Ship of Fools" U. S. Tour. NF Recital 
Hall, 7:30-8:30 p.m., free and open to 
the public. For information, call 6992. 

Upcoming February Events: 

23 Annual Higher Education Day at the 

Stntehouse (free transportation, lunch, 
and statehouse tour); for reservations, 
call 6807. 

National Eating Disorders 
Awareness Week Feb. 23 through 
27. For information, call 6647 or e-mail 
tillapau@ipfw.edu. 

26 Engineering and Technology Career 
Day, WU Ballroom, 9 a.nV.-12:30 p.m.; 
for information, call 6839. 

27 Theatre: Bernard Shaw's Arms and the 
Man. WT, 8 p.m.; also Feb. 28, 
March 4, 5, and 6, and matinee 
March 7, 2 p.m. For information, call 
6S55. 



This ad courtesy of the Office of the Chancellor 




'mmewaii 



Jon "Reep 



Thursday Feb. 12th Noon 
Walb Ballroom... Free Lunch!!! 



Page 4 The Communicator 



Opinions 



February 1 1 , 2004 



Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or 

abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the 

right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the 

government for a redress of grievances. 

Word of the Week: 
Bludgeon 



A cry for Carlie 



abducted and killed by anothei 



I who should have been 



; hear this story and our hearts ache. No good i 



effort 



.ike kids safer Iron 



.inning i 



The kidnapping and murder ol h-vivir-old Adam Walsh in 1981 inspired the National 
Center for Missing .ui.f [\ploiled I hiklren. It also m.ide his father, John Walsh, a tireless 
crusader against criminals. "America's Most Wanted" does more to make the United 
States safer In one hour than all other network and cable Shows combined do in a month. 
In 1996. 9-year-old Amber Hagerman was abducted and killed near her home in Texas. It 
led to her community establishing the first "Amber Alert" system. Amber stands for 
America's Missing Broadcast Pmergencv Response. 1 1 is a system now in 47 of the 50 states 
and has already paved the way tor rescues or kidnap victims. 

The lives of Adam and Amber never should have been touched, but their families and 
communities didn't just leave a legacy of mourning. They built a legacy of caring for oth- 



l.ast week, C.irlU 



Hi in la, a 

n^al !h. 
uorld In 



11-year-old girl in Florida, was kidnapped and later mur- 
ibduction after it was too late: a video of the actual taking 
_»e after the kidnapping. The harsh reality was she didn " 
her abductor or call tor assistance. 

th, people mourned and asked how it could have been 
" -"' al system that heed a known criminal who had 
a dei 



ous was thejud:__ 
l the past. During 



decade of r 



'ith the law, he spent less 



i prison? Yes. Had officials and juries been more skep- 
?-teen years. He shouldn't have been 



ave spent more time i 

arlieWia would still belivi 

as Carlie walked home from a friend's home. Authorities should have taken 

-. activities into account and kept closer supervision on him. For Carlie, it's 

ipeaking of the situation earlier this week and wandered onto a 
gteat'ldea. We mand.ile physii al education lor students in public schools - why not ded- 
k ale some ol that education to sell -defense' More speufkalh. Ic.kh children simple ways 
of pushing away Iron) aggressors, the caller said on The I'aCWhite Program. 

It's a good, simple idea. We worry so much about kindergarten; but our tax dollars may 
be much better invested leaching voum* children a way ol kii kine a potential criminal in 
(lie knee or groin. 

Will it have some drawbacks? Maybe children will misuse some of their skills against 
one another. It is ,1 situation to deal with, but sell -defense tradilionalh teaches responsible 
useof the practices. We teach children to use l M 1 , an.l authorities freely admit kids misuse 
the 'Ml system. Cenerally we agree the benefits u f |he occasional lifesaving call from a 
child outweigh the hassles ol police dispatchers dealing with the much more common 
misapplication ol it. 

Parents and schools teach children the basics on how to escape from a burning house. 
We can also teach them basics on escaping .in abductor. 

ay of adding to the defense of children may be to teach them an alert word. In a 
theatre, screaming "lire" is an obvious way lb let others know they're in danger Bui 
or help horn children c.m olten &gt;.;.• ignored by society in public because often it is 
.. ./ kids Wim; disciplined by their parents. 

Perhaps we couK 1 establish a new key word to a kidnapping or abuse alert from children 
to nearby adults, ll we tell children in trouble to exclaim as Fondly as thev can "Carlie" if 
'hr\ leai being taken, it could become a one-word signal to which those nearby can 
respond. Her name itselt can become a source ol vocal self-defense. 

Combining the two - verbal and physical self-defense - may save children in the future 
Larhes tragic mistake w\is being intimidated b\ her abductor and hee/mg, unable to alert 
anyone to her situation In her name and spirit/we can teach oui child rent,, kick hard and 
cry her name loudly if they ever find themselves n, a potential abusive or deadly plight. 
Because it can happen anywhere. And sell defense should be re-encouraced for 
teenagers as thev go through high school .ind into adulthood. On campus, IPFW helps 
sponsor Rape Aggression I Vlcnse * lass occasionally. 1 he next \(.\D course will take pla - - 
fSlQ 1 " Wee s " rhn S March 29. More information on it can be requested by calling 4c 

The lives of Ada 
benefit our childrt 
who prey on our community'and children. 



movie 

a cry for .._.,. 

said by kids T&gt; 



? requested by calling 481- 

-i, Amber and Carlie ended tragically. Here's hoping their legacies can 
'^"dlessly - py^establishing new ways of fighting back against those 



S.G. Wahlberg 



It is the darkest lime in February. The weather has been consistently 

drab for nearly three mnnths now. (rapping the poor residents of Indiana 
in their homes. Cabin fever is spreading among the masses, and tensions 
are running high. During this time of stress, it would be prudent (and 
wise) to behave with as much common sense and U'lerooce as is possible, 
so as to avoid getting hit with a car or bludgeoned with a blunt object 
until facial reconstruction surgery is necessary To assist in this effort to 
remain unbruised, the following list details certain everyday activities 
that are not necessarily Ihe safest in which to engage. 

One common mistake a Hoosier often makes is the assumption that the 
road is for walking on, contrary to the popular and long-held belief that 
the road is for cars It seems ,i large mainly oi the population, especial- 
ly while visiting the mall, feels thai roads were made for pedestrians, and 
those who drive cars on them are obviously in the wrong. Often, a driv- 
er may receive dirty looks and lewd hand gestures For using said roads 
for their true purpose: to drive on. Please, gentle readers, when walking 
somewhere, use the sidewalk, and cross the road in a direct line from one 
side to the other. 

Following the road-related theme, the source of much anest and fend- 
er-benders here on campus is driving too quickly in the parking lots dur- 
ing the so called "rush hours" early in the morning when classes are just 
starting or just getting out. Yes, there is a press to get a parking spot 
quickly so as to avoid being late to class. , m d lo accomplish this task some 
choose to drive in excess of thirty miles an hour in the South Kettler park- 
ing lot, to point out just one place where such poor judgment occurs. 
Often these are the same people who drive on the wrong side of the lane 
when whipping around a corner. This combination of speed and driving 
left of the center line often result in crashes that most certainly will make 
one late to class. Maintaining a speed of ten miles an hour (or less) and 
following basic rules of the road (stay right of center, people) will help 
prevent these dented fenders. 

A social faux pas frequently committed on in campus buildings them- 
selves is blatant disrespect ot the faculty and student body by either pack- 
ing up before a class session has ended or walking down hallways and 
making an inordinate amount of noise, despite the fact that classes are 
being held in the surrounding rooms. Students here at IPFW, in most 
cases, do have a busy schedule, but this does not warrant loading up your 
backpack ten minutes beloie class is out i\ot onlv is it distracting, but the 
first person to begin packing their bag sets off a veritable avalanche of 
bag-packing, which crescendos into a dull roar of shuffling papers, clos- 
ing books, and zipping bags that is sure to drown out any professor. 
Speaking of drowning out the professor: yes, it is allowed to hold con- 
versations in the hallways belween courses, but it is not respectful or nec- 
essarily very modest to go about campus shouting your business to the 
world while you walk down the hallways Remember third grade? 
Practice walking and talking cjuieth it's rea'lh quite simple. 

If, however, you can cease performing only one potentially fatal behav- 
ior this winter season then by tar the most essential behavior to abandon 
is leaving a cell phone on in inappropriate places Classrooms, movies, 
weddings, funerals, churches, and libraries are all inappropriate places to 
keep a cell phone on Additionally, it is completely, utterly, totally, and 
wholly not acceptable to not only leave your cell on, but also actually 
answer it when it rings in one of the above locations This, gentle readers, 
is the number one fastest way to receive a swift and severe beating dur- 
ing these cold, bitter limes Hopetully the above advice will help Indiana 
through another winter, happy and whole. 



The 

Communicator 

Editorial Policy 

"'■'Is arc lilt' opinion-, ol 1'ju: ( .••lurutiii.tilin; The ..['iini'ie expressed in cell 
i or opinion columns do not necessarily reflect the views of IPFW. its 
employees or ils student body. A column is solely the opinion of the author. 

Tlie Commiaicator welcomes responses from readers. AM Letters to the Editot 
and guest columns must he signed claicd and accompanied by a current, valid 
address, telephone number, and class standing/major or title. Telephone 
bers and addresses will not be printed. All submissions made vie e-mail will be 
eritied h\ telephone or in person. 

The editorial board reserves the right lo edit all submissions for length, gram- 
iiar. style and clarity. 




Campus 



'What would you like to hear on an IPFW radio station?' 



BM Danielle ^HH Matt HH Emily HMH 

Haynes, ■ Snyder, | ■ Bandeiler, ■ ■ Kethcart, *^~ i 

Freshman: ■ Freshman: ■ Freshman: | ■ Sophomore: " r I 

A variety. ■ -Rock music. ■ " We nee d a | ■ "Today's ' 

Thehitsfrom I ■ We don't have I ■ Httle bit of ■ biggest hits, I 

each kind of ■ a lot of good ^^M variet ^, A m . ■ M 

music and ■ rock stations. ■■ tie taste of H H 

than have KL ^^" L*S^B« ^ ■ 



The hits frt 
each kind of 
music and 
than ha 

news, sports, and all that 

good stuff." 



Laura 

Baughman, 

Sophomore: 

"Something 
I that would 
showcase 
local artists 
that are on 



February 1 1 , 2004 



Opinions 



The Communicator Page 5 



Breeder Eye for 
the Queer Guy 



The premise is always the same. 
We have some common person, 
let's call them person A, and A has 
a problem. Call in a team of 
experts, cameramen and embar- 
rassing friends and family mem- 
bers, and you have a hit on your 

From rooms to hair, from daring 
style to clothing, shows are hits 
when they point out why we 

Dear readers, I have no prob- 
lems with bettering ourselves, and 
I've learned many important 
things watching these shows. I'll 
admit, it is entertaining watching 
these TV transformations. Who 
didn't chuckle when some of the 
off-the-wall designs made 
Trading Spaces homeowners tear 
up in front of the nation. 

But then again, I chuckle on the 
inside when someone trips, as 
long as the only thing hurt is his 
or her ego. You know you do too. 

You'd never admit it, but you 
gawk at accidents too. There's no 
fooling me, we're a disturbed peo- 
pie. 

Anyways, I've never really had a 
problem with the makeover 
mania that's hit our media air- 

I watched when they cut and 
dyed the hair. I watched when 
they taped a single man on a date 
and told him why he was still sin- 
gle. I even watched and laughed 
when they took a woman and 
locked her into a room with mir- 
ror walls so she was forced to look 
at how awful she looked. 

I've never had a problem until 
they started messing with my 

The latest make over craze is 
men-makeovers, and manliness 
will never be the same. Queer Eye 
for the Straight Guy, from the 
Bravo Network, has become a 
mainstream mania with it being 
aired on NBC. Originally a cult 
sensation, it has been lifted from 
its cable roots and thrown into the 
public eye. For those of you that 
have no idea what I'm talking 
about, allow me to clarify. 

Enter Joe Hetero, living his life, 
when suddenly the "Fab 5" 
ambushes him. They are a team of 
five homosexual men, each with a 
"specialty." They've been com- 
pared to the X-men, using "their 
powers for good" to battle the 
evils of the male world: nose hair, 
outdated fashion, and pizza 
box/cinderblock decor. 

However, I've often looked at 
some of my male friends and 
thought that a haircut would do 
them some good. 

Although the show has its 
humorous moments (Carson is 
very talented with the one-liners 



and the innuendos), and I've got- 
ten some good decorating advice, 
I can't help but be bothered by 

First of all, the concept is actual- 
ly genius. How many women 
have looked at a gay male friend 
and thought to themselves, "If 
only you liked women, my life 
would be perfect"? I'll admit it, 1 
have. Enter this show, teaching 
the straight men of the world how 
to be a little more "sensitive." 

Maybe if it's just me, but if I 
wanted to be around sensitivity 
and primping, I'd hang around 

There's nothing wrong with tak- 
ing pride in your appearance, but 
when he's taking longer to get 
ready then I am, there's a prob- 
lem. When his specialized line of 
beauty products overwhelms my 
hair care products, it's not right. 
When his manicured hands make 
mine look manly, there's a huge 

•aty 



Beyond my own personal pref- 
erences, the whole idea behind the 
show makes me uneasy. It's more 
than a generic makeover show. It 
takes a lifestyle, finds the biggest 
stereotypes, and publicizes it for 
the mainstream. Change the two 
parties involved, and it's no 
longer an "ok" show. 

I really don't think that "Honky 
Eye for the Black Guy" would be 
as successful. "Punk Eye for the 
Gap Guy" would be on the cut- 
ting room floor as well. Would 
you watch "Kosher Eye for the 
Catholic Guy" or "Pagan Eye for 
the Christian Guy"? I don't think 
so. Even switching around the 
two parties currently involved. 
"Breeder Eye for the Queer Guy" 
would have the protestors out en 

Maybe we should produce that 
show on the college station. We 
could have Brad, John, Mark, Joe, 
and Tom who would cover such 
important areas as: Beer, Sports, 
Cars, Strip clubs and Fashion. 
They ambush the gay man, and 
make him a little more like 

The gay community would be 
incredibly offended. The biggest 
issue I've seen them try to express 
is pride in who you are, and you 
shouldn't change who you are on 
the inside for anyone. Why are 
we encouraging and allowing 
them to come in and tell straight 
men that they need to change? 

Men, have no shame in being 
yourselves. It may seem like it's 
what we want, for you to be a lit- 
tle more sensitive, but the fact is, 
in the long run, it'd probably 

We'd both fight over our time 
slots in the bathroom. 



THE COMMUNICATOR 




Working for the Man: 
dehumanizing or meaningful? 



The Communicatoi 



Where is the line between being realistic and being 
cynical? In one of my many adventures on campus 
this question look center stage when I heard a pro- 
fessor rem.irk [now i am paraphrasing here) that 
IPFW is in the business of creating cogs' in the 'cap- 
italist machine ' 

That comment fell like getting a bucket of ice water 
in the face. 1 looked around at the other people there. 
but they all seemed to agree. Alter my initial shock 
wore offl wryly thought to myself that I should stay 
quiet; there was no way I was going to challenge a 
Ph.D when the bulk of" my knowledge comes from 
Jeopardy questions. 



giial mechanism to keep me front going 
&gt;m the pointless nature ot my employment. 
I you feel like you've accomplished some- 
thing al the end of the day'" My mother would ask 



Earlier this week, when ! was struggling to finish 
my homework at 1:00 AM, 1 thought to myself: so 
e part of a machiri 



have the same classes and the same schedule every 
week; I try to introduce as little variation into my 
routine as possible. 

In fact, in my employment I often feel like a robot, 
entering data into the same program in the same for- 
mat for hours at a time It is scary when 1 sit at my 
desk and have no recollection of where the last three 
hours of mv life went. I traded my life for approxi- 
mately S2LM7 (after taxes that works out to about 
0.002 cents). I think this mind blank is probably some 



while attending IPFW. ami the goal in attending col- 
lege is to get a shot at a better job when we (hopeful- 
ly) graduate. 

So then? we go. I guess this is an assembly factory 
lor the robots of American capitalism. 

Hut is that such a bad thing? 

1 think that it is the cogs that keep IPFW open with 
our tax dollars, and I think thai the donations made 
to the school are from cogs m this machine 

If I am just a cog, then I should quit college right 
now and wmk lull lime as a dala lackey. If 1 am some 
faceless facet of the capitalist factory then 1 don't 
need to be paying II'FW to tell me that this system is 
worthless. 

The professor ami the millions ol people that agree 
are entitled to their opinions. 

But I think its okay to not he a revolutionary, and 
its okay to just want to make things better for your- 
self and your family by getting a better job with bet- 
ter pay and maybe, just maybe, a little more satisfy- 
ing work. 

That is not changing the system— that is not fight- 
ing the system, that is not in any way taking down 



work with whal 



letters to the 



ditor 



Experience not neces- 
sary for a valid opinion 



Wednesdays 
Contact us at 481-6584 

LX us at stupaper@ipfw.edu 



abortion' is so Iraught with logical errors, that it is 
difficult to know where to begin refuting said falla- 
cies. This is extremely impressive due to the excep- 
tional brevity of the piece. 

What is confusing comes to be seen in the over- 
arching idea behind the article. This idea is that the 
preclusion of the possibility for someone to experi- 
ence certain things such as pregnancy and 
menopause automatically denies thai person the 
opportunity In discuss the issue al band. Using this 
line of reasoning, Miss VVhilcraft could and should 
never speak about baseball because she Joes not play 
it, testicular cancer because she does not have testi- 
cles, or bank robbery because she has never run off 
with Bank One's cash The absurdity of such reason- 
ing is readily evident. Since when does experience of 
the potential for experience in a certain area make 
one's opinion more viable than that of one who can- 
not indulge In such things? 

As for the contention that "abortion should not be 
an issue of law," the fact is th.it abortion already is an 
issue of the law. And since when does personal pref- 
erence dictate what is right or wrong? We have laws 
in place and we change law- so that certain people's 
twisted "personal" preferences are kepi in check. I 
could always just say I don't agree with the law 
against murdering and contend that it is my person- 
al preference to kill someone for any reason. Tins is 
extremely irrational. Using your own logic. Miss 
Whitciafi, until you become a journalist and have a 
degree in logic, your point is moot. 



Column does disservice 
to community, coaches 

In the February 4, 2004 Communicator, Dan 
Vance wrote a column 'Time to teach the Coaches", in 
which Mr. Vance criticized coaches Noll, Hartley, Ball 
and Fruchey, and the other IPFW coaches by innuen- 
do, that they do not teach classes to our students. I 
will first point out that Mr. Vance is incorrect on near- 
ly all the points that he makes in this almost slander- 
ous article about our coaches, and obviously he 
needs a lesson or two in how to research articles 
before he writes them. This seems to me to be anoth- 
er indication of where our society is heading, people 
can make any assumption they want and publish 
these assumptions, without any concern about the 
impact of inaccurate reporting. This is a "Let's write it 
first then do the research" attitude, which is nut only 
a lazy approach but one that is completely irrespon- 
sible. Even if there is an apology made after the fact. 



have other jobs outside the u 
campus during the day. That 
forward way to do initial 
something my daughter lea 
ind way would have beei 



the damage has already been done. 

If Dan had done any type ol research into 
this article, all he would have had to do was to open 
Ihe Schedule of Classes books available to all student 
for the past Fall and current Spring terms. If he 
looked under the Health, Physical Education and 
Re« o alum (HPER) section he would have found that 
not only do Ihe assistant coaches leach, but the head 
coaches teach as well He would have found the fol- 
lowing head coaches Moll/Gernon, Bums, Patterson, 
Ball and Stefankiewicz all lisfed as teaching a course 
oach Fruchey, 
and are not on 
le and straight 

st grade. The 
Nth rheathlel- 
department to find out whal their policy is in 
regards to Coac lies and leaching. 

Secondly, Dan wants to equate Division 1 
coaches with High School coaching in which you 
might find the football coach tea, lung math or biolo- 
gy. High School coaches are usually hired to teach 
first and coach second They are trained to teach 
within a specialty area. They do not have to fund 
raise, to recruit prospei Is, lo travel around the coun- 
try trying lo si hi 'dole opponents. Fach departmental 
IPFW hires their own fat ulry (the vast majority have 
Ph.D's) to teach their classes and I do nol think that 
I would want someone not trained lo teach specialty 
courses to college students to teach them. While 
Doug Noll and the rest of our coaches do not coach 
professionals, thev are professional coaches and 
should not be placed in the same category as high 
school coaches! 

I think that Dan should talk to these coaches 
and find oul what their life in coaching is really like, 
and report on the outstanding effort thai these people 
make, win or lose These professional coaches care 
about what they do, and I know that they all are 
greatly rewarded when the "teaching" of their respec- 
tive athletes results in sun ess ,o the classroom and in 
life after college. The coaches know that most of their 
kids will not become professionals, and to see them 
succeed in the classroom and subsequently in life is 
the only tangible reward that most teachers are able 
to get. To see students reward their coach/mentor 
with this kind of success, to see them become coach- 
es to others and to give to another person the same 
values that they were taught is the highest reward 
that teachers get Not only do our coaches do this 
with their own teams, but they give this opportunity 
to all students on campus m the HPER courses that 

Dan, I think that you owe our coaches and 
our university a sincere apology. You have done a 
disservice to our community by not doing your job. I 
hope that you are able lo leam from this experience, 
much like athletes leam through losses as well as 
wins. Sometimes, Dan, a loss will make you a much 
better person than 300 wins. 



Elliott Blumenthal, Associate Professor 

Department of Biology and 

NCAA Faculty Athletic Representative 






Page 6 The Communicator 



arts and entertainment- 



February 1 1 , 2004 



^ss^Ute (flsaansasBQ 



By K.E Kasey 




The Communicator 




II the Civic Thea 


re's Producti 


"Joseph and the Am 


zin fi Tcchn 


llr.Mnuoal" had to be- 




word, it would bt- enthus 


astic While,. 


the production is not th 


■ most polish 



mentary. The standard I use to judge these for the pi 

aspects was the price of Hie student ticket of duction " 

sixteen dollars. For adults, the price is even scenery 

higher, and (or that amount of cash I expect- tually hold 



, there 



theater alter the li^lit-, li.id pnn dt.is n \1u-i. als earn &lt;i special privilege to be 

Surprising Ihuiie.h (lie audit n.r u.is near () \ er-the-lop, because they disregard any 
ly one-third small .hildren, the people who pretense of reality. The musical numbers 
continued to talk alter the prtuliu lion started ranged from sixties pop to Caribbean 
were the adults, rhythm, and the dance styles reflected these 

OK nurse, that was oll.llloumseuueiLr styles even though Ihe production took place 
aftei eveiynes mention was 1. 1. used fully j n Egypt, The Pharaoh does a rendition 
on the stage, In the opening scenes lhea&lt; ting r ;| v j s w h L . n he asks Joseph to interpret hi 
seemed si unew li.il limed In addition, Ihe dreams, and the brothers lament the loss of 
props and costumes seemed somewhat rudi- prosperity in a Trench bistro As these exam- 
ples show, the wide variety of styles 
poses a challenge to the actors, hut 
the cast brings together the dis- 
parate styles and makes the produc- 
tion fun to watch, That, more than 
anything else, is the goal the actors 
should aim for; a goal which they 
achieved as the show progressed. 

The zeal of the actors really 
brought Ihe production together. 
And though al lirsl the scenery and 
props seem second rate, this also 
turns out to be misleading. The 
props might have been simple in 




lout the the audi- 

n by the ence. The 

ngper- lighting 

Era and for the pre 




product placement in several seer 

early scenes a sign lor Sweetwater sound ment was the greatest detrac- 

was hung in a palm 

tree. I thought i&lt;Kontre!l Tyler enjoys his first starring role 

was a piece of J 

scenery that had been turned around ; 

dentally; hcv 



because the issues 
it their fault. The actors even 
ke the curtain calls interest- 
ed his ing by combining them with another musical 
number. 

While "Joseph and the Amazing 



:lheyt 






Abraham Lincoln turned up next to a pyra- formanceof 

mid (Lincoln Life) and. one of the brother's of money ar 

wives walked out holding a sign for Peter managed to 

Franklin Jewelers while Joseph 

new clothes from the Pharaoh, I 

rassed for the production. The theatre ha: 

stay in business, but I had no idea that this Technicolored Dreamcoat" may have a wide 

kind of product placement was necessary; in appeal, this production is really tailor-made 

at least one scene the placement (the for families who have the opportunity to 

Abraham Lincoln head) was so blatant it take in a live show and expose their children 

earned laughs from the audience. I think to the wonders of theatre. 

the production was excellent, but not 

enough to have a free pass. 




Get On 
The Bus! 



8"' annual IPFW Higher Education Day at the Statehouse 

All IPFW Students, Faculty, and Alumni invited 
Monday, February 23 
7:45 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 

FREE motorcoach transportation from IPFW to Indianapolis 

FREE how-to-work with your legislators lesson 

FREE lunch with legislators at the Westin Hotel in Indianapolis 

FREE self-guided tour of the Indiana State House 

FREE opportunity to see our legislature in session 

FREE one-on-one meetings with legislators 

FREE photo opportunities with legislators 

Check with vour professors. 

Mam are g/vmg extra credit for your attendance 

at this very important IPFW event. 

Sign up in Kettler 142 

or email: alumni@ipfw.edu 




Three years before Sgt. Pepper's defined the "concept 

album, die Beatles began their domination ol \nierica (and 
ihe wprldlwith their lirsl appearance on "The hd Sullivan 
Show. ,8 million viewers tuned in (4 out ol everv 10 in 
the nation) to see the Fab Four perform "I Want to Hold 
lour Hand, among others. Ihe pcrlormance was lirst in a 
siring ol appearances to iollow, totaling lour by the end of 
19657 

This historic beginning was honored Sunday night at the 
l.ramnw-, reselling m a a hul.lusiei nerlorniaike lav Sting 
and ( o. of "I Saw Her Standing I here ' which made us all 
realize how much we miss the real thing. 





February 1 1 , 2004 



arts and entertainment- 



Custodian and IPFW graduate finds 
time for pottery at home, on campus 



^j „«.„» "*y reading this, Michael Jariek is 

The Communicator asleep. And when you go to bed 

tonight, Ir' II pruKiblv |ust be get- 
ting up. 

Janek is a third-shin custodi.in in Walb Student Union. This 
means that while the rest of the world is sleeping, l.inek and a few 
select others are up from midnight to six in the morning cleaning, 
mopping, and any other custodial duties that may arise. It's a 
tough job, especially, |anek '-ays, since he's getting older. 

Bom and raised in Hammond. Indiana, lanuk joined the serv- 
ice and spent a year and a day in Vietnam. He was signed up tor 
three, but managed to get out early due to a paper work error 
involving computer training. 

As soon as he got home, Janek took advantage of the G.I. Bill 
and enrolled at Purdue Calumet in Hammond, then to Indiana 
University in Gary, which according to Janek is the home of "the 
greatest dances in the world." It wasn't until his wile's job moved 
in 1474 (hat Janek moved to Fort Wayne. 

"A friend said we could stay with him so we lived in his 
garage for six months," Janek said. 

Janek first came to IPFW to finish up the general studies 
degree he had been working on. What had begun as elementary 
education, then turned into political science. Janek finally decided 
that his degree of choice would he general studies. 

"Less requirements, more electives," he said, smiling. 

To the students ot today, room 21h of Walb belongs to student 
organizations. But back in Janek's day, circa 1974, that room was an 
extensive craft center. Now just bare walls with drab cubicles, the 
room once was home to a darkroom ("you can see where the sinks 
used to be in the closet," he says) and two potters wheels. 

It was the putters wheels thai allowed Janek to 
explore his interest in pollers', which was originally 
sparked by browsing through the now defunct cata- 



That lasted until 1980, when'janek decided to move onto 
something else. He needed a house so he could throw at horn,' but 
he couldn't do that on the money he was making al ll'FW, so he left 
school six credits short ot graduation. Janek later regretted thedeci- 

So Janek went from job to job, which varied from working in a 
food warehouse to working as a legal assistant for a man he met on 
the tennis court. 

"He asked me if I needed a job and so I worked for him for a 

Janek spent the majority of his time as a painter, a job "people 
in art can always count on," he said. 

Throughout this time, bis love for pottery continued, especial- 
ly flourishing in the art lurm of Kaku. an ancient Japanese style that 
is even the inspiration for the names of some of lanek's children; 
Silchi (' happy") is a junior al Northrop, and his son Kaki (pleasant 
surprise") is a student at IPFW. 

It wasn't until his daughter^ started looking at colleges that lie 
realized he should go h.uk and finish up his own college education 

Last seme-ter. [anek finally graduated. It's a degree that may 
have started in the 70\ ,ind is older than two ol his children, but he- 
did it. And now that school is out of the way, he's hoping to find 



So with pottery as a relaxing hobby, )anek hopes be teaching 
uon. Based on his current schedule, it looks like its going to have 
i be night school. 



log "Whole Earth." 

"'Whole Earth' wa 

taught hippies how to I 
Although he ivasn 



Janek did ( 
you 



i pottei 



; very big in the sixt 

ve tn the woods." 
: trying to live in the woods, 
an article on how to build 
. Initially, he didn't plan on 
e the project was completed 



using the wheel, bnl 
he decided to give it 

One day shortly after Janek moved to Fort 
Wayne, he made a trip to the Athletic Office (for- 
merly located where the Greek Suites are) about the 
tennis courts. Somehow they got talking about pot- 
tery, and Janek mentioned his homemade potter's 
wheel. 

They told him that they had two potters wheels 
right next door, so Janek made the trip As it turned 
out, the two people in charge were just about to fin- 
ish up their last semester, so lanek took over, a posi- 



i cleaning, setting up, and when hi 




The Communicator Page 7 




Have Interest In creating art with 
pastel, or sharing your art with oth- 
ers? Sign up for the Main Street 
Chalk Walk 2004, sponsored by the 
Articulates and taking place in front 
of the Fort Wayne Museum of Art. 
Now in it's fifth year, the event fea- 
tures local artists and their street art 
skills. Cost to join Is $10 for art mate- 
rials and an 8' x 8' chalking space. 

The event will take place on duly 
10-11, from 11am-6pm Saturday and 
11am-5pmon Sunday. 



The Fort Wayne Museum of Art is 
proud to present "Normal rockwell 
Lithographs from the Powers 
Collection of Cheney, Washington" 
" " ough May 23, 2004. 
II contain fifty signed 



from April 3 l 

The exhibition 

lithographs from the Powers 

Collection. 

For more information, 
Linda Dykhulzen, Public Information 



Coordinator, at 422-6467 a 



. 312. 



Ever wish you could publish a 
book? That dream has never been 
easier to accomplish with the help 
from Xlibris, which Is partially owned 
by Random House Ventures, LLC. 
Xlibris has published over 8,000 titles 
and has paid over $1 milllo in royal- 
ties, and are able to publish anything 
from a 700-page novel to a 24-page 
color childrons book. 

To learn more about publishing 
your own work, call Xlibris toll free at 
(888) 795-4274 at ext. 278. 

If you are a non-profit or arts and 
entertainment organization and you 
would like your events published In 
the Community Calendar, send infor- 
mation at least two weeks in advance 
to Kurtis Meyers, A&amp;E Editor, at stu- 
paper@lpfw.edu or fax 481-6045 



IPFW 



DON'T MISS OUT! 
SPACE IS STILL AVAILABLE BUT GOING FAST! 




the substandard 
in student living 



amenities 



• Individual Housing Agreements 

• Furnished Bedroom 

• Furnished Living Room 
» Fully Equipped Kitchen 

■ Dining Area with Chairs 

» High-speed Internet and Cable Television Service 

• Community Center 

• Social Lounge with Big Screen Television 

• 24-Hour Laundry Facilities 
1 Fitness Center 

■ Basketball Sport Court 

1 Computer Learning Center/Cyber Lounge 
1 On-site Community Assistant Staff 
' On-site Management and Maintenance 
1 Housing for IPFW Students including Allen 
County Residents 

OPENING FALL 2004! 



IPFW 
Student 
Housing 



INDIANA UNIVERSITY-PURDUE UNIVERSITY FORT WAYNE 

260-481-4180 

Kettler Hall G98F • 2101 E. Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, Indiana 46805 
wvAv.IPFWstudenthousing.com • email: info@IPFWstudenthousing.com 

PROFESSIONAttY MANAGED BY AMERICAN CAMPUS COMMUNITIES 



HDUSING FDR IPFW STU 



Page 8 The Communicator 



Features 



February 1 1 , 2004 



Etna 

February 4, 2004 



PftJIsBffcy d 

:■ I'mlinruli.:.) 





1 


1 


' 


' 


1 




' 


■ 


1 


' 


10 


" 


" 


" 












• 






" 




















' 






" 








































' 




■ 


" 






















I 


. 










'" 


" 


" 


1. 










I 


1 












" 






































I 


' 


























, 






















■■ 


" 


















II 


■/:. 








" 


! '-' 








™ 


" 


** 


M 


■' 










s " 


















8 










0. 






" 










" 










n 
























H 




afi 









« AITiWl 
6*.Ump 



JSpouicI tallyman: 



J). rrcparoJ 



f 



New choices for lower 
priced books shown 



Classifieds 



Need an extra $36,000.00 a year? 

Vending route for sale. 

^i) high traffic locations. Cost 

$5,000. 1-800-568-1392 or 

www.vendingthalworks.com 



Movie extra's/ Models needed 
Local &amp; statewide Productions 

No F\p. Req?s, All Looks, Ages 



EARN UP TO $300/ DAY 
1-800-818-7520 
Looking (or lull or part-time 
work? Reach Your Potential 
in outside sales with Media 
Direct, a growing cable TV 
sales, marketing and audit 
company. Salary plus 
commission. Bonuses, 
health benefits and paid 
training. Hard working, 
enthusiastic people 



Wanted: 

Professional photographer 
hiring female models. Fine 
art, figure photography. Must 
be over 18. Contact Jim 485- 
1618 



In direct response to student and 
■ demand for quality learning 
materials at lower prices, Thomson 
Higher Education, a part of the 
Thomson Corporation announces two 
new initiatives: the Advantage Series, 
a comprehensive selection of lower- 
priced texts and electronic solutions 
from highly respected authors in the 
humanities, behavioral and social sci- 
ences, sciences, and mathematics; and 
Digital Discounts, a special limited- 
time offer on digital versions of select- 
ed leading Thomson Higher 
Ediu.ition texts. 

An instructors adoption of an 
Advantage Series title gives students 
the opportunity to purchase new, 
high-quality textbooks at a price at 
least 25 percent below the price of typ- 
ical hardcover texts for the course. 
Titles in the series are able to offer cost 
savings in various ways, including: 
-- Smaller trim sizes, one- or two-color 
production, fewer photographs and 
illustrations ("Compact Editions"). 

- Unbound and three-hole punched 
versions of full-color texts ("Value 
Loose-leaf texts). 

- One- or two-color texts enhanced by 
media-rich Web sites ("Value 
Paperback" or "Value Hardback" 
texts), instead of putting these assets 
into the book itself. 

"We are highly enthusiastic about 
the launch of the Advantage Series, 
which is just one reflection of our 
ongoing commitment to responding 
quickly with unique and varied solu- 
tions to our customer's current and 
emerging needs," said Susan Badger, 
CEO of Thomson Higher Education. 
"In making a selection from our list of 
highly respected titles, an adopter of 
an Advantage Series book will receive 
all the advantages of both scholarship 
and quality in a lower-priced course 
solution."-- - 

This seasons list of Advantage 
Series books, available for use in sum- 
mer and/or fall 2004 courses, features 
more than 25 titles from many of 
Thomson Higher Education's most 
respected and successful authors. 
These include Charles R. Ho/fer's 
Compact Edition of Music Listening 
Today, Second Edition; Sheldon 
Metcalfe's Building a Speech, Fifth 
Edition; Edward L. Ayers, Lewis L. 
Gould, David M. Oshinsky, and Jean 
R. Soderlund's American Passages: A 
History of the United States, Compact 



Edition; Steffen W. Schmidt, Barbara 
A. Bardes, and Mack C. Shelley's 
American Government and Politics 
Today, Brief Edition (2004-2005); and 
Tom S. Garrison's Oceanography: 
Invitation to Marine Science. These 
titles are available unbundled, or with 
rich technology and Web resources. 
Thomson Higher Education will con- 
stantly expand the series, introducing 
additional titles in the fall and 
throughout the coming years. 

In its "Digital Discounts" promo- 
tion, Thomson Higher Education is 
offering specially priced interactive 
versions of several key texts from 
Thomson South-Western, Thomson 
Brooks/Cole, and Thomson 
Wadsworth. These products combine 
the original textbook with a rich selec- 
tion of multimedia learning tools and 
tutorials. 

Joe Marcelle, senior vice presi- 
dent of sales and marketing, said, 
"We're giving our customers an alter- 
native to the traditional textbook 
model, not only offering quality con- 
tent at an unbelievable price but 
added flexibility and features in a dig- 

The Digital Discounts program 
includes Boone and Kurtz's 
Contemporary Marketing, Eleventh 
Edition; Daft's Management, Sixth 
Edition; Gitman and McDaniel's The 
Best of The Future of Business; 
Guffey's Business Communication: 
Process and Product, Fourth Edition; 
Mankiw's Principles of Economics, 
Third Edition; McEachern's Sixth 
Editions of Economics: A 
Contemporary Introduction, 

Macroeconomics: A Contemporary 
Introduction, and Microeconomics: A 
Contemporary Introduction; and 
Miller and Jentz's Business Law 
Today, Sixth Edition. Interactive ver- 
sions of Beneski and Waber's Virtual 
Biology Laboratory and Nairne's 
Psychology: The Adaptive Mind, 
Third Edition - plus the Engage Online 
version of Starr and Taggart's Biology: 
The Unity and Diversity of Life - 
round out the list of titles that are part 
of this special offer. All of these texts 
are available in other formats, but this 
Digital Discount program gives stu- 
dents and faculty the choice of a less 
expensive digital alternative if they 
feel it would provide a better solution 
to their teaching and learning needs. 



Educational 
Travel 



• See the finest art of Europe. 

• Experience another culture. 

• Earn credit toward your college degree. 

England and France 

May 31 -June 1), 2004 (far credit) 

Rome 



July 8-15, 2004 &lt; 
July 8-22, 2004 &lt; 



' credit) 



Information Meeting: Thursday, Feb. 12, 7:30 p.m. 
Walb Student Union Room 110 
260-481-6111 




Don't forget to recycle 
this paper. Thanks for 
all of your support... 



Two Great Dealls! 



Baby Back 

'N Brew 

Wednesdays 



Enjoy a double order of 
fajiias (enough for iwo) 
for jusi till And 10 02 
original Top Shelf and 
Caribbean Margaritas are 
only )2* 



A full rack of Chili's® 
famous, double-basied 
Baby Back Ribs is jusi 

t9.99! And 10 02. 

Domesfic Draffs are 

jusi »1.** 



chilfe 

(G R I LL^^&amp; BAR) 




For* Wayne • 317 E Coliseum Blvd • 260-471-2979 



February 11, 2004 



Features 



The Communicator Page 9 



Go behind the conceit 
curtain with Alabama 



Have you ever woruk'Tvd what ^&lt;v~ 
on behind the scenes of a major concert at 
the Memorial Coliseum? Now you can 
enjoy the thrill of seeinp everything - up 
close and personal. 

The Allen County War Memorial 
Coliseum and Clear Channel 

Entertainment are thrilled to announce the 
launching of Ihe first ever Behind the 
Scenes program. Alabama - Behind the 
Scenes will offer you, the fans, an in-depth 
and up-close look at the sel-up of a major 
concert. Join us on Friday, February 20 
from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. for this exclusive 
event, prior to the Alabama - Farewell 
Concert that night. For only $20.00 you can 
add this (o your concert experience! 
Reservations are limited to the first 100 
people and to be eligible for this offer you 
must have purchased a ticket to the 
Alabama - Farewell Tour Concert here in 
Fort Wayne. 

The Memorial Coliseum and Clear 
Channel staff members will provide you 
with the inside look fo the days i 



behind this incredible show. Alabama has 
gained acclaim for their amazing live per- 
formances that have blended a rock like 
country sound that translates into a larger 
than life experience! Come and say 
farewell to one of America's most beloved 
country music groups and all in the same 
day see the workings that make the magic 

The moming will start at 10 a.m. 
sharp with professional presentations on 
the subjects of booking a concert, load 
in/load out procedures, rising, lighting, 
sound, building operations, catering and 
promotions. Lunch will be served on the 
new Club Seating Level and is the same 
menu that will be served to the Alabama 
crew. Lunch is included in the $20 registra- 
tion fee. The day will end with a question 
and answer segment before concluding at 2 
p.m. 

For details and reservation proce- 
dures please call the Coliseum at 482-9502 
to become a part of this exciting, exclusive 



The Communicator 



BUY 1/8 PAGE OR 



Advertise with us. 
ARGER FOR 3 CONSECUTIVE WEEKS GET 4TH S 5TH 
WEEK 35% OFF 



Contact Advertising Manager 

Mandie Pierce at 481-6583 or 

email her at stupaper@ipfw.edu 




You've Never 
Lived or Worked Like This! 



I PFW Student Housing, the new premier housing choice for IPFW 
students, is looklhg for Resident Assistants. As a Resident Assistantyou will help 
make IPFW Student Housing a great place to live through outreach with 
students, resident programming, leadership and customer service support. 
Qualifications Include: 

• Must be a full-time IPFW student in good standing 
■ Must have and maintain a 2.S GPA or higher 

• Must have strong leadership and communication skills 

• Must attend one RA Informational Session to apply 

For more information and to apply, please stop by the 
housing office located in Kettler Hall. 

2I0I East Coliseum Blvd. • Fort Wayne, IN 46805 

(260)481-4180 

www.IPFWstudenthousing.com 



OPENING AUGUST 2004! 



Have you ever thought about going RED? 
We want YOU! 



Milinar Hair, Skin &amp; Nails wants to help 
you fulfill your Dream! 



Model call: 



Tuesday 
February 1 
1-6 pm 



Milinar H.S.N. 

6016 Brandy Chase Cove 

Fort Wayne, rN 468 1 5 

260.486.4952 

We're just off of Maplecrest Rd. &amp; State 
Street near the Blu Tomato Restaurant 



Wc will add cither miiii-highlights, chunky lights or a 
romc red color to your hair for only $1 5.001! 
t to help you maintain your new red color tool Call to 
i appointment for our model call or for more informatio 












Black H 


story 


Month 




7 N R 


n 


t 


I T G 


:: 


s 


"■: 


g 


M C 


J 


S L 


L X P 


o c q 





Z 


Q D 


T 


p 


A 


¥ 


K K 


K 


K U 


L L D 


I F I 


D 


u 


V U L 





E 


A 


V 


V H 


U 


R K 


A R Q 


N M U 


I) 


E 


V X R 


a 


V 





B 


T B 


H 


A 


F Q B 


O X G 


F 


R 


SAB 


V 


U 


G 


G 


S G 


H 


P C 


E U 2 


E S 9 


J 


C 


? N 


E 


w 


H 


h 


P 


I 


A G 


P V S 


Q B G 


T 





X F B 


N 


V 


G 


V 


A 


¥ 


A N 


V H W 


AND 


P 


E 


H R A 


¥ 


E 





X 


X s 


D 


A U 


B E I 


t a e 


£ 


H 


PER 


V 


T 


K 


G 


D ? 


S 


R N 


7 T H 


3 T N 


X 


B 


Z K H 


U 


V 


A 


P 


M X 


G 


T L 


X K 


H A M 


Et 


S 


T E U 





H 


R 


K 


G X 


H 


S 


R P K 


r v c 


G 


V 


B N E 


c 


R 


S 


1 


1 


J 


T R 


R Q W 


P H A 





N 


T N S 


s 


S 


H 


K 


T X 


G 


I E 


T H S 


CRN 


D 


B 


OAR 


V 


Y 


A 


R 


1 H 


S 


V X 


HUD 


X 


[. V 


S 3 H 


I 


A 


L 


Q 


: o 


R 


N V 


T R R 


X K C 


R 


G 


I P W 


X 


Z 


u 


I 


H A 


T 


I 


V S X 


A B J 


A 


2 


I A D 


N 


Z 


L 


P 


C X 


G 


V X 


Q T E 


Q £ L 


5 


S 


N U 


S 


I 


N 


J 


H T 


V 


R T 


LOB 


R K G 


R 


P 


G J S 


J 


t 


V 


S 


u H 




K G 


H N g 


HH0 


$ 


D 


W 




X 


» 




N T 


V 


R H 


S R F 


HH3BSH I 



Banrtelcer 

Carver 

Douglass 

Ellington 

Hurscon 



Jacob* 
King 

Marshall 

Morrison 

Naylor 



Partes 
Truth 
Tubman 
Turner 

Woodson 



THE COMMUNICATOR 




on Wednesdays 
Questions? Contact us at 481-6584 
or e-mail us at stupaper@ipfw.edu 



Flexible Hours to fit Your Class Schedule'. 



EDUCATON( 



100KWC FOR FNFRCFTlC WORKERS 



Join our Warehouse Team &amp; Work In A Friendly environment 
m Work part-time now/full-lime in the summer 

■ Duties include order filling (injuikswrntiighiimnguposoibs) 

■ Starting at $7.50 hr. 

rSSKSEi flH^itedCh 44,3 Airport Expressway 
Monday Friday j M oM Education | For, Wayne. Indiana 



The Communicator 



FOCUSING ON KEY 
WEAKNESSES WILL 
HELP SUCCESS 



Feb. 

Fri,20 .11 Middle rem 

Sal. 21 al Middle l-Tir 
Sun 22 .il MiJilli- I. m 
Fri.27 vs. Indiana Sta 

28-29 Hvnnsvillf, Hal 
Valparaiso or f 

March 



. Valparaiso 
LerSgh 
.Duquesne 
. Eastern Kentucky 



BUTTER pH) 
BUTLER (DH) 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
at Centenary (DH) 
at Centenary (DH) 
at Daylon 
Bl Central Michigan 



I -ARI MAM i HI I I ■(, I 
VAI l'AI&lt;AISO(l)H) 
at Valparaiso (DH) 
I Dl I Di) 
al Mi. higan Slate 

GHICAGO STATE (DH) 

DIIKOII MIKO (DH) 



al Toledo 

VOl IMGSTOWNST. 0H) 

YOUNGSTOWN ST. (DH) 

al Ball Mate 

m Bowling Green Slate 



I W,/.imK 



Kv Dan \ 
IV turn 



baseball team fin- 



favor. 

Everybody (the ami 
programs) knew that going in 
that they were going to have ' 

to speak in 
this early division one transi- 
ion period," said Gernon 
And in order to create rela- 
tionships to get Division 1 
teams to come to your park, 
you have to go to their park 
first. It's a necessary evil that 
lies with being an independ- 

During the 2003 cam- 

ign, the 'Dons only played at 

me eleven limes, going 8-3. 

Tliis season, Gemon will find 

the home side of 

the scoreboard twenty-four 

Recently. Gernon took 

vantage of his role as a 

speaker at the IHSBCA State 

Clink to promote the team and 

The team's best hitting 

tput (16 hits against Eastern 

■ntucky) and best single game 

ERA (.476 vs. Bucknell) came at 

home and. on a neutral field 






civ 



11 attend 
Despite a lapacitv 
of 1 ,0150, the 'Dons never pulled 



Stadi 

Tins year is going to be a 

much friendly setting for us. 

We play well at home. In four 

1 have been here, 

record is 3d- 23 at home, so 




Ryan kenna - IF - 
Tyler Fowler • IF 
Rv.m Steinbach - IF 
Brandon Armstrong - OF 
lason Roth - OF 

Jesse Shovek - IF 

lason Horvath-P 
Max Guyll - C 



15 Nathan Beals- IF 



Tra\ i". lohnson -P 
I-.ru Lambert - P 
Sean Kirk • OF 
Adam Ferris - P 
AkI) Walton -OF 
Ty Tornincasa - IF 
Tom Wilson - P 
Malt Hagedom - C 
Keegan Laycock - P 
Ci-e\ Rohan -P 
Doug McDonald - P 
Billy Gernon -Coach 



20 



Baseball 



PRE\ 




File Photo by Eugene Harding 
With eight of the eleven pitchers returning from last season, the pitching ele- 
ment will be a huge key to the 2004 season. The Dons biggest loss in the pitch 
ing department is Kellen Marshall, who transferred out of IPFW. 



CONSISTENCY IN ROTATION 

2004 Key Players 



Consistency It seems simple. Yet not one of the played 5U-somethmg It 
athletic programs at IPFW has been able to attain it 
during the 2003-2004 school year. 

Coach Billy Gernon and his baseball squad, 
hope to be the first. 

"Our main focus is balance Last year because of 
youth, we might have a great pitching performance 
and poor defensive performance or have a bad 
pitching performance and great offensive perform- 
ance," said Gernon. "We never seem to have balance 
and consistency." 

On offense, the Dons have a large gap to fill in. 
Only one of their top three hitters, in terms of batting 
average and slugging percentage, will return. 
r, Brandon Armstrong, 



"He was balanced as a switched hitter, and as e 
freshman," said Gemon of Kenna. "In high school. 
played more than 28 games and here he 



fielder out of Mishawaka. Indiana wilt strive to 
improve his numbers during this, his junior season. 

"We hope Brandon continues to improve each 
year as he has since he's been here," said Gemon. 

While Armstrong, who put up team best num- 
bers in batting average ( 333). hits (SO), and doubles 
(12) among others, will be a focus of the offense, 
Coach Gernon is looking lor everyone to provide a 

"Really not anyone individually (are we look- 
ing to have step up offensively), but collectively 
about seven to nine guys," commented Gemon. 

Another top returner offensivly is sophomore 
Kvan Keen.i Keena. Ireshman co-MVI' last year, hit 
.277 , including .282 from left and .276 from right. 



tough for him." 

Kenna also had a near team high fielding per- 
centage of .990 in 2003. 

On the pitching side, which will be the top 
focus for the team, according to Gernon, the Dons 
will look to senior lason Horvath to step up again. 

Horvath, who will seconded only Kellen 
Marshall (who transferred out of IPFW) will be the 
top returning pitcher according to his ERA. 

"Pitching is going to he a t ntical part of our pro- 
gram," said Gernon. "We need to be known for our 
pitching and we need to be known for our defense. 
And offense should supplement that approach." 

Coach Gemon and his assistants also decided 
on a five-point captain system lor the upcoming sea- 

with Doug McDonald, David Zachary, Tyler 



Fowler, Zach Walton and Kenna as the focus. 

"The coaching staff is relying &lt; 
unwaivering leadership in those guys for the full 
length of the season," added Gemon about his cap- 
tains "No matter what the 



"We should have 



them to stay out front when 
front when it's not great." 

and only two freshman 
2003), consistency may be 



iperience, we should 
be more competitive," said Gernon. "1 don't want to 
jinx myself or the team, but we are looking forward 
to a prosperous and competitive baseball season." 




Ryan Kenna 



Outfielder 

Bats /Throws: S/L, 

Major; Biology - PreMed 

Homestead H.S. 

Fort Wayne, IN 



lason Horvath Brandon Armstrong 



Pitcher 

Bats/Throws: R/R 

Major: OLS 

Mishawaka MananH.S. 
South Bend, IN 



Outfielder 

Bats/Throws: L/R 

Major: Criminal Justice 

Mishawaka H.S. 

Mishawaka, IN 



04 

Softball 



tfEW 




Senior Maggie Bruening (11) will be the top returning hitter on the Lady 'Dons 
quad this season. Bruening and company will be joined by five freshman players 
from around the state. 



CALLING ON THE UNDERCLASSMEN 



2004 Key Players 



Despite graduating Division-1 Inc 
Player of the Year Crystal Fisher last si 
Mastodons have plenty of good talent re 
2004. 

The senior class is led by Fort 
Wayne natives Maggie Bruening (North 
Side), Karilee Johnson (Blackhawk 
Christian) and Mindy Pomeroy of 
Mishawaka, while the junior class con- 
sists of four players, all very talented. 

Bruening led the squad in most 
offensive categories last season. She had 
52 hits on a whopping .382 batting aver- 



Nick West contnl'ittid to thf- sion/. 



i guady ( 



age. She also batted 
three homeruns and had 
base percentage of .406. 

Porneroy, a pitcher, had a .305 ERA 
last year and struck out 31 in 16 games. 

Despite the experience of its upper- 
classmen, the Mastodons will refy on 
some underclassmen to provide some 
solid contributions. 

In all, six newcomers are listed on 
the 2004 roster and all are expected to 
contribute, especially with Bruening 



early," Fisher said. "They will get some 
good experience under their belts right 

Those newcomers include the ver- 
satile infielders/outfielders Korin 
Maciulski {South Bend, IN), Ashley 
Johnson (Bluffton, IN) and Kari Butler 
(Decatur, IN). Infielder Amanda Kelly 
(Angola, IN) and homegrown outfielder 
Angela Pasquali (Homestead, IN) are 
also freshmen. 

"We have a very solid lineup from 
top to bottom," Fishi 



Two of the three 'Dons who we 
named to the 2003 All-Independe 
team were sophomores, pitcher Be 
Harmon (Newcastle, IN) ar 
catcher/outfielder Jenna Bead 
{Woodbum, IN). 




Pitcher 

Bats/Throws: R/R 

Marian H.S. 

Mishawaka, IN 



Angela Grabciak 



Shortstop/Outfielder 

Bats/Throws: R/R 

Hobart H.S. 

Hobart, IN 




Catcher/Oulfielde 
Bats/Thi 

Woodlan H.S. 

Woodburn, IN 



Infielder 
Bats/Throws: R/R 
North Side H.S. 
Fort Wayne, IN 



February 1 1 , 2004 



FISHER WANTS TO 
TAKE LADY DONS TO 
THE 'NEXT LEVEL' 



Being an independent ir 
collegiate sports is not just diffi 
cult for basketball, but for all 

sports, including softball. But 
.iftiT.i20l)3M.Msonin which the 
in- IV soltball team finished with 
its most wins ever (24), head 
coach Keith Fisher is looking to 
take the Mastodons to '" 

"We have a nice c 
re. illy good athletes," Fisher 
said. "We were very competitive 
last season and everyt 
roster has a role on tni 

The 'Dons have their work 
cut out tor them. The lack of 
conlercnce affiliation finds their 
schedule once again peppered 
with high- profile teams .vruilonj; 
road trips, including treks to the 
Tennessee. South Carolina, and 
Florida to begin the 

ipefully we'll be i 
iher said. "But w 
have an excellent schedule thi 
year and it is ,, great opportunity 
'" is to be successful.'' 

The Mastodons finished 24- 
24 last season and were led by 
Division- 1 Independent Player 
of the Year Crystal Fisher, who 
lost to graduation this 
spring. 

Mastodons will rely 
their pitching at the beginning of 

especially sim 
Bruening will not join the tea 



will be key this season," Fisher 
said "Without good pitching we 
won't be able to compete very 
well. Defensively, we'll adjust 
pretty well 



later than teams of the 
because of 
ground. IPFW is 
exception. 



SCHEDULE 

• Uinivrotv o! Tcimi-ssiv al Martin 
S/'rmv Sufi/',!// Classic 
Sal. 21 vs. UT-Martin 
Sal. 21 vs. Indiana Stale 
Sun. 22 vs. E. Tennessee St. 
Sun. 22 vs. Si. Louis 



Fri. 27 vs. Boston 

Fri. 27 vs. UNC-Greensboro 

Sat. 28 vs. E. Illinois 

Sat. 28 vs. Charlslon 

Southern 

■ Rebel Gimies ■ Orlimdo, FL 
Sun. 7 vs. Sacred Heart 

Holy Cross 

. George Mason 
Lehigh 
E. Kentucky 

i. Quinnipiac 



Moo. S 

Trior 11 
Thur. 11 
Fri. 12 
Fri. 12 



Creightoi 
Cardner-Webb 



Tues. 16 VALPARAISO (DH) 

Fri. 19 TRI-STATE (DH) 

Mon. 22 at E. Michigan (DH) 

Thur. 25 DEI HOI I MLRCY till I) 

Sat. 27 at Purdue (DH) 

Tues. 30 at Toledo (DH) 



Thur. 1 
Sat. 3 
Mon. 12 
Thur. 15 
Sat. 17 
Tues. 20 
Thur. 22 
Sat. 24 
Sun. 25 
Wed. 28 
Iliiu 21 



at Wright State 
BOWLING GREEN (1)1 1) 
..I Ohio Stale (DH) 
at Cleveland Slate (DH) 
ST FRANCIS (DH) 
,il Valparaiso (DH) 
at Butler (DH) 
,H Hall State (DH) 
IUPUI (DH) 
INDIANA STATE 
INDIANA TECH 







Korin Maciulski - INF/OF 
Ashley Johnson - INF/OF 
Heather DeVore - 1B/3B 
Beth Harmon - P 
Angela Grabczak - SS/OF 
Laura Randolph - INF/OF 



12 Kari Butler - INF/OF 

13 Jenna Beachy - C/OF 

14 Kacie Stone • C/OF 

15 Mindy Mason -P 

16 Amanda Kelly - INF 
20 Angela Pasquali - OF 
23 Mindy Pomeroy - P 
25 Karilee Johnson - OF 

27 Briane Niemic - OF/INF 

28 Christina Funk - INF/OF 
- Keith Fisher • Coach 



Page 1 2 The Communicator 



Sports 



February 1 1 , 2004 



Another close loss for Mastodons; Women drop two 




By Nick West 
The Communicator 



othci 



the 



the IPFW men's basketball team. The 
Mastodons closed to within one in the 
final three minutes Ian. 7, but eventually 
fell to the University or Texas-Pan 



IPFW (ell behind by as many as 15 points 
in the second half, before going on a 13- 
3 run to cut the Broncs lead to 46-45. 

But, UTPA {9-13) ran off the next six 
points, and held on for the win. 

Junior center David Simon was the 
game's high scorer with 20 points, to go 
along with his game high 15 rebounds. 

Freshman guard Beau Bauer added 
12 points and seven boards. 

Guard Sergio Sanchez led the 



Basketball 
Roundup 



The Dons lost in a comeback, 57-55. 



nth 17 

ncluding 
hrec 

and 10 
abounds 

Butler 72, IPFW 55 

Drilling 12 shots from behind the 
three-point arc, Butler University topped 
IPFW, 72-55, Feb 4 at Hinkle Fieldhouse 
in Indianapolis. 

Sophomore guards Bruce Horan 
and Avery Sheets combined for seven 
triples, and were two of the three 
Bulldogs to hit for double-figures with 
14 and 11 points respectively. 

Senior forward Duane Lightfoot 
was the game's high scorer with 22 
points on 11-16 shooting. He missed a 
double-double by just one rebound (9). 

IPFW was led again by Simon with 



Memorial Col is 

Women 

Illinois-Chicago 91, IPFW 68 

Senior forward Amy Gearlds 
became only the fourth player in IPFW 
women's basketball history to eclipse 
the 1,500 point mark on Feb. 7, in the 
Mastodons 91-68 loss to the University 
of Illinois-Chicago at the Gates Center. 

UIC {10-12) broke open a close 
game in the second half, on the three- 
point shooting of guard Lashonda 
Grant. Grant went 6-11 from behind the 
three-point arc, to help UIC open up a 
twetilv point lead. 

But, with the game in hand, the 
only drama was if Gearlds could hit 
1300. She did, with her only two point 
basket of the game late in the second 
half. She finished with 23 points, includ- 
ing seven threes. 

IPFW also got double figures from 
senior guard Maggie Bruening and 
Verea Bibbs with 15 and 10 points 
respectively. 

Grant was the game's high scorer 
with 25 points. Three other Flames also 
tallied double digits. 

Texas A&amp;M Corpu^hristi 76, 
IPFW6ffW 

In a very close game at the Milliard 
Gates Center on Feb. 4, it was the 
Islanders of Texas A&amp;M Corpus Christi 
holding off IPFW 76-68. 

In a game that featured seven ties 
lead changes, TAMUCC 



utive loss. 
The Islanders (15-8) led at the half 
one, after trailing by as many as 



TAMUCC got a game high 23 
points from Terra Andrews. Anna 
Hartzell and Monica Pena each added 
16. Forward Jackie Ododa pulled down 
a game-high 19 rebounds for the 
Islanders. 

IPFW was led by Verea Bibbs with 
16 points. She was joined in double-fig- 
ures by Murdock with 11, and Courtney 
Nicley and Amy Gearlds with 10. 

IPFW is now 7-15 and travels to the 
University of Wisconsin-Milwuakee on 
Feb. 12. 

The 'Dons final home game is on 
Feb. 23 against Wright State at 7 p.m. 



6v +*e Numbers # 

■,,500 - Amy Gearlds' caret 
point total; good for 4th all-time 
in IPFW women's basketball. 
1 5 4t 3 - The overall ranking 
CBSsportsline.com gives David 
Simon of all Division-I m 
basketball players and Division-I 
centers, respectively. 
3 7" Beau Bauer minutes in th( 
40-minute contest against Tri 
State. Most players average only 
22 minutes per game against the 
fast-paced Tri-State offense. 



Sports Briefs 

Track &amp; Field 

Women 

The IPFW school record for 
the women's 5,t)00ni has been bro- 



[nviteonFridaj evening 

[nark of 19:1857 In 2003, saw the 
record fall' to teammate Ashley 
RJtchey last week, Ritchey 

smashed Simpson's record, in a 
time of 18:55.41. 

Simpson shaved another 15- 
seconds from the school record, 
blazing the 5,000m in a time of 
18:40.07. 

Simpson finished second to 



Tennis 

Women 

The IPFW women's fennis 

team losts ils second match of the 
weekend. 5-1, against Cleveland 
Stale on Feb. 6 Earlier that day the 
Mastodons were shut out by 
Eastern Illinois, Ml, bringing their 
season record to 7-7. 

No. 2 team of Beth Miller and 
Jessica Vervynckt defeated 



Freshman Lisa Baxtelheim 
was the sole singles winner as she 
defeated CSU's Rebekah Bicksler 
7-6, 6-1. 

The Mastodons are back in 
action Feb. 13 when they host 
University of Dayton at 6 p.m. at 
the Warsaw Racquet Club. 
Men 



Eastern Illinois and Cleveland 
State. Eastern Illinois came out 
Strong, sweeping the singles, and 
winning 4-0 The Mastodons ral- 
lied back against Cleveland State 
capturing the doubles point, only 
to fall short in singles, dropping a 
S-l decision Feb. 6. 

In doubles, IPFW's No. 1 and 
No. 2 tandems secured the 1-0 
advantage, as Michael Parker and 
Daniel lacksnn defeated Eric Winn 
and Jay Tee 8-5 at No. 1, while 
Carlos Gonzalez and Ryan Orr 
took down Dan Singer and Paul 
Halev 8-3 at No. 2. 

The IPFW men's tennis team 
returns to action Thursday, Feb 26 
with a 1 p.m. match-up VS. St. 
Francis (PA), 

Waterski meeting 

There will be an information- 
al meeting on Monday, Feb. 16 at 6 
p.m. in Walb 225 for any interested 
student. Past experience not need- 



Team player; personal feat 




Gearlds said she 
wanted win more 
than point record 

By Scott M. Lawson 

The Communicator 

Athletic officials started counting 
down Amy Gearlds points to 1.5U0 
about six or seven games ago. She 
didn't think about it at all. 

"It doesn't even phase me. It's not 
an individual sport - it doesn't 
matter how many you get as long 
as the team wins," Gearlds said 
Monday. 

Saturday, she scored her 1,500th 
point on a lay-up with about 5 
minutes remaining in their 91-68 
loss against University of Illinois - 
Chicago She started the contest 
with 1,477 points and hit seven 
three pointers through the first 34 

The Lady Mastodons currently 
have a record of 7-15. Gearlds 
would trade the accomplishment 
for a W. 

"It would have been better if we 
would have won," she said. 

She knows that she has been the 
go-to player for the Mastodons this 



"My teammates go t 



look for i 



i be a i 






IPFW 

Feb. 7. Gearlds is fourth on the aU-timefPFW 

would rather of had the victory on Feb. 7 than the record. 



forwardAmy Gearlds hugsher sister after scoring her 1,500th 

basketball scoring list She said she 



This year, she had her own per- 
sonal goals that had nothing to do 
with scoring 1,500 points. Better D 
was her goal. 

"My personal goal has been to 
become a better defensive player. 
There's time when I do that and 
there's time where I slack at that. 
The last six games, my concentra- 



The team now returns to the road 
- and it's a time she and team- 
mates are looking forward to trav- 
eling. They play Wisconsin- 
Thursday; 



'Dons hand it to #15 OSU 



Milwaukee 

Wisconsin-Green Bay on Saturday. 

Next week, they'll take on Texas- 



By IPFW News Services 



The 
spirits afle 
..Hiked ON 


State in 


are in great 
ng off 15th 
front of 1,278 


IPFW 3 
Ohio State 1 




t h e 
Gates 



moves to 4-1 (2-0 MIVA) with the 3- 
1 win over the Buckeyes. The 
Mastodons won the four-setter by 
the scores of 35-33, 30-20, 30-32, 
and 30-25. 

Matt Zbyszewski, senior 
outside hitter, led the attack with a 
match-high 28 kills. Junior leftside 
Mitch Dreisbach also registered 
double-figure kills in the match 
with ten. 

Middles Serdar Sikca and 
Mike Daiga, and setter Dennis 



Santiago were huge on defense. 

Daiga, playing against his 
hometown Buckeyes, factored in 
on 13 blocks. Sikca and Santiago 
helped roof 12 stoppers a piece. 
Santiago also doubled up with 49 
assists in the match. 

OSU (4-4, 0-2 MIVA) had 
four players with double digit kills, 
led by Andy Cole with 20. 

IPFW returns to action this 
Friday night when they host 
Clarke College at 7 p.m. 



"Three out of the four, we've 

played already. They came into our 
court and beat us, I want to go out 
and beat them on their court," she 

Gearlds explained she isn't nec- 
essarily disappointed in the sea- 
son, despite the rough record. 

"We're competing at a high-level, 
we just need to compete for the 
whole 40 minutes," she said. "All- 
in-all, I'm having a fun year - but 
yes it's disappointing because 



basketball," Gearlds said. 



