Mastodon Minute Graduation Ceremony 

PaQ6 2 * How does it work? 

J i y Paqe 8 



Shades of Green 



Page 10 



Wednesday, April 28, 2010 ipfwcommunicator.ora 



sssSte 



-_ = Jy, 



VrJ 



judicial 



rage 2 



&amp;fi 



\RSA#AJUi^ 



April 28,2010 



POLITICS &amp; MONE &gt; 



Coffee Break 

by Kim Coffey 




I SET MOST OF MV RELATIONSHIP 

ADVICE FROM TWILISHT AND 

JUSTIN BEIBER SONSS. 



Mastodon Minutes 

IPFW Weekly News Station for students 



ecall of Judicial Court Justices 




By Kristan Mensch 

kmt.i nbre j n n e«tg nui l.«nn 



Many students make the hunt for 
(tee food on campus an an form, study- 
ing all of the flyers for food options and 
always knowing where lectures are be- 
ing held. Though, even with prepara- 
tion, there are always those who get 
on campus only to find that they failed 
to hear about an event and a food line 
formed with too long of a wait before 
class. A lot of people had that prob- 
lem during Spring Fling, with lines 
that sometimes stretched out to the 
Engineering and Technology building - 
producing about an hour-long wail for 
most students. 

There is an efficient way to stay up- 
to-date at IPFW. Mastodon Minutes is 
an informative as well as humorous 
weekly news show that "strives to get 
IPFW students more involved on cam- 
pus." according to the Mastodon Min- 
utes' Facebook group page. The 
show began airing in lanuary after losh 
VanCleave, Ryan Lower and Kounney 
Bell developed a plan for the idea of 
Mastodon Minutes several months pri- 
or. 

"I have gained tremendous knowl- 
edge on how a whole studio produc- 
tion operates." said VanCleave, director 
of the show, adding that "IPFW does 



not really have any type of program 
such as this." 

"Kourtney, Ryan and I wanted to 
bring actual news media to IPFW in- 
stead of just theory classes," VanCleave 
said, mentioning that although theory 
classes hold value, they do not provide 
hands-on experience. 

In addition, Mastodon Minutes "is a 
great place to go if you are wondering 
what is going on each week with sports, 
clubs, and if there are any freebies on 
campus. Also, we are a great place for 
organizations on campus to receive 
some publicity," said Bell, Co-Anchor 
of Mastodon Minutes. 

Bell also mentioned that anyone 
with interest can help with production 
of Mastodon Minutes. 

"If there is someone wanting to get 
into broadcast as a career ... this is a 
great way to gain experience," Bell said, 
adding that it would also be good expe- 
rience for those who simply want to get 
involved in something on campus, but 
do not necessarily want a broadcasting 
position in the future. 

Ranging only from seven to fifteen 
minutes, the news shows are great for 
college students who feel they need to 
schedule time to breathe. Mastodon 
Minutes is aired on College Access 
Television (CATV) every Monday and 
Tuesday, and episodes can be found on 
the Facebook group page. 



By Luke Henkenius 

b e nUlO t eilud en I u pi w td i&gt; 



It seems that the current court has 
been having trouble keeping up with 
their appointed tasks, and therefore 
have been recalled. One problem 
they have been facing is a failure to 
meet regularly in compliance to the 
rules of the court. This has had an 
impact on them not being able to 
go through the necessary processes 
in order to function as they should. 
Furthermore, many of the rulings 
tbey had made have been cancelled, 
as they failed to set them out in the 
proper process. 

Although the job of the court is to 
rule on the constitutionality of the 
decisions made by the legislature, the 
court had been overstepping their 
bounds. They had also been setting 
unconstitutional mandates for the 
rest of the student government that 
they did not have any power to be 
making. 

There were, at first, three justices 
who were to be recalled, Tanner 
Guffery, Victoria Seargent, and John 
Prince. However, Prince was not 
recalled at the rime. 

On Monday, April 26 there was a 
meeting at noon in Walb 1 14, where 
the student government addressed 
many points, including the problems 
they have been having with the 
court. They also discussed the 
reappointment of the new justices, 
who, as of yet. have not been decided 
upon, although it was a point of the 



discussion. 

According to Amanda McCann, 
president of IPSGA, this situation has 
wiped out theentire court, something 
that has never happened in the past. 

McCann, who has been 
responsible for appointing new 
justices to the court, stated, however, 
that she had not yet decided who it 
is she would like to replace for those 
who have been recalled. Although 
she understands the importance of 
having a functioning judicial court. 
she explained that having no court 
is no better than having a court 
that doesn't function anyways. She 
believes that it is more important 
to take the time to create one that 
functions properly. Therefore, she 
has decided to wait until she finds 
people who are responsible enough 
to make sure they do it, and do it right 
If she is unable to find anyone who 
she believes fits the bill, she explains 
that she is willing to wait and allow 
the upcoming president to make 
the decision, hopefully choosing 
someone suited for the position. 

Three of the five justices had been 
appointed the year before, and the 
other two were appointed by the 
current President. McCann, though, 
hopes that next year IPFW will have 
a well functioning judicial court. 
She believes that a Judicial Court is 
only able to build its power through 
a lasting established legitimacy, 
and unfortunately, the way the 
current court was doing tilings was 
illegitimate and thus, took power 
away from, the court. 




1128,2010 



POLITICS &amp; MONEY R3 



weather c Q Qs m m w 

W1IMI1AI1IM Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesd; 

lUnUOWll 63740= 73°/56° 8i°/60° m^/ss- 73755= 73-/51- 73-/51 



worldandcampus {News Brief} 

Tin* rf/tttinum nn what is hannenine on cammis and in the world ■ this week 



Tlie rundown on what is happening on campus and in the world ■ this week 



a bonfire tliis Friday. April 30, f 



Addicted to social media? You're not alone! 



arc addicted 10 using 
cited sindL'nis ' 



or the study results. Addiction to the inter 

psychiatric disorder yet, according to 'lop News. 



a period of time as the basis 
mil been listed as an nl'licial 



GLBTQ Issues presentation 



n Friday, April 30. The 



Killer fungus discovered 

: killer Fungus lias been found in the Pacific Northwest. Even though it 

, _.._, unusual, "the fungus has been lethal in about 25 percent of the people 
1 the U.S. who have developed infections," according to CNN Health. The 
opical fungus causes lung infections in both animals and people. 



Lit GLBTQ issues at noon in theWalb 
lart of the Student Affairs Professional 

is will lie served. The event is free and 



Run/walk on campus 



n Stomp 5K Run/Walk will take place this Sunday, 
pick-up is from 12:30-2:00 p.m. at the Walb 
will begin and end at Wall). There will also be a 40C 



!iana Senator Candidates 



fiana Set 
By Krtstan Mens Ji 



This year, the race for Indiana 
Senator is between eight candidates. 
In the primaries on May 6, the Re- 
publicans will have five names on 
the ballot: Martin Stutzman. Dan 
Coats, Don Bates, Richard Behney. 
and John Hostettler. The Demo- 
cratic, Libertarian, and Independent 
parties each had one candidate, Brad 
Ellsworth. Rebecca Sink-Burris and 
Timothy Frey, respectively. 

With such big topics as health 
care, education, and energy on the 
table, these candidates have a lot 
of work ahead of 
them. 

On die sub- 
ject of education, 
candidate Martin 
Stutzman says 
he will give tax 
credits to fami- 
lies sending (heir 

children to private or charter school. 
Richard Behney says that even with 
$68 billion for education, we aren't 
getting "much bang for our buck". 
He says die Department of Educa- 
tion should be made smaller, and 
return educadon to communities 
and families. Libertarian candidate 
Rebecca Sink-Bums says she would 
encourage more charter and magnet 
schools. 

With the passing of Obama's new 
healthcare reform, there came a stir- 
ring. According to his campaign web- 
site. Richard Behney says "we must 
kill healthcare legislation". Demo- 
cratic candidate Brad Ellsworht sup- 



ported the passing of "Obamacare". 
He says, according to his campaign 
website, that health care is the most 
persona] issue to all Hoosiers. Sen- 
ate hopeful Dan Coats says we don't 
need to worry about health care, we 
need to focus on jobs. 

Coats, whose campaign spot- 
lights issues such as national secu- 
rity, immigration, and the economy, 
is focusing on bringing back jobs 
and economic stability. According to 
coatsforindiana.com. Coats says he 
is getting back in the race because 
"I couldn't look myself in the mir- 
ror without saying 'Step in Dan, do 
something." " 

In a recent debate between these 
Republican 

"Libertarian candidate Rebecca 

Sink-Burris says she would 

encourage more charter and 

magnet schools." 



candidates, 
the ques- 
tion of en- 
ergy arose. 
Three of the 
candidates 
covered en- 
ergy on their 
campaign website. Don Bates says 
he will reduce foreign dependence. 
and encourage the innovation of nu- 
clear power, and pursue alternative 
energy sources. Mr, Behney says be- 
ing energy independent mean jobs 
and freedom. Stutzman says he will 
give tax credits for bio-fuel produc- 
ers. With the nation currently im- 
porting 65% of our crude oil, energy 
independence and fuel alternatives 
warrant a big portion of the table. 

With these big problems, and nu- 
merous others, the government will 
be kept busy for a while. But one way 
to make sure that your voice is being 
heard is to go out, register, and vote. 



Now you can find out 

what's happening 

at IPFW. 

All in one place. 



• Browse official university events, all in one location 

• Subscribe to calendars and receive automatic updates 

• Publish information about your official university events 

• Find out what's happening at IPFW 

Visit events.ipfw.edu, or select the events tab in mylPFW. 



For more information, 

e-mail events@ipfw.edu, 

or call 260-481-6808. 




IPFW 

▼ 

INDIANA UNIVERSfTY 

PURDUE UNIVERSITY 

FORT WAYNE 



April 28. 2010 



OPINIO 



I 



Smoke Hut Diaries 



By Robin Crowell 

robirr/aurgraveijjmafl com 



Al ihe end of last semester a few 

of the smoke hut regulars and myself 
relocated a lonely picnic table to 
reside next to Ihe CM (now 'Liberal 
Arts' or 'LA') but because a) there was 
not enough sealing within the hut to 
accommodate the regular allotment 
of guests and b) in instances of lovely 
weather, it was a preferable seating 
situation. When we moved the picnic 
table we didn't realize that the winter 
snap was upon us and thai the picnic 
table that we worked so hard to earn 
would sleep under piles of snow for 
the next few months. 

The snow melted and the leaves 
greened, but still I found myself 
Strolling into the smoky confines of 
(he hut as opposed to seating myself 
on the picnic table located beside. 
A few days ago I arrived to campus 
marginally earlier than is typical and 
noticed Jennifer, Adam, and Mike 
sitting at the table and not in the hut. 
I joined them. 

At one point throughout my 
hours spent al the table I let myself 
slide back, my legs draped over the 
bench portion of the picnic table and 
my back on the grass, feel exposed 
lo (he sky and my eyes squinting 
from the glare. I ignored the din of 
conversation that was streaming 
from their mouths and drifted ofFintO 



a place where only my consciousness 
mattered. I had myself, the grass 
against my back, and the bold yellow 
sun caressing every piece of my being 
al that very moment. 

Though my reveladons that day 
were not profound, I'm not claiming 
to be a great discoverer of any sort, I 
did figure something out For me. At 
one point or another, everybody has 
to step out of the hut. It serves as a 
positive distraction from the troubles 
of school, it serves as a wonderful 
place to meet new people and engage 
in conversations that one never 
thought possible, and it serves as a 
strategically placed commodity for 
smokers to 'share their air.' At one 
point or another, though, everyone 
needs to stray away from that comfort 
zone. 

Ihopethatlhaveinspired someone 
at least once to do just that. I hope 
that I will continue io inspire people 
to do just that. Lastly, I am thankful 
for the readers of this publication 
and, specifically, my column. This is 
my send-off, these arc my best wishes 
to all of you continuing at 1PFW and 
all of die good diings, bad things, 
and things that fall somewhere in 
the middle that will come your way. 
Every moment is a blessing, every 
conversation actually does matter, 
and every cigarette and cup of coffee 
needed for one reason or another to 
be smoked and drank (respectively). 

Thanks again, 1PFW. 




OPERA 

MINI 

A review 



lance thai Opera 

i Apple had Mini might have. Luckily, Opera 

cviously not allowed any browser Mini performs well as a mobi" 
uther than their own Safari mobile browser, quickly loading pages, ar 
browser. Opera Mini's release was performing all tl 

seen by many as a step toward a that a web brows 

loosening of restrictions of the App question is: "1-luvv does it compare to 
' I for ap 
h Appl 

► Opera Mini: Page 5 



The Stop Dating Show 



By Wil Upchurch &amp; Bernaderte Gleeson 



"I get so nervous when I go out with someone 
for the first time, and 1 do not know what to say or 
do. Are there some things that you suggest I do?" 

--Sherry, Illinois 

This is very honest. Thank-you for sending 
it in. What we diink is so wonderful about your 
disclosure and your question is that you are 
focusing on yourself, and therefore things that you 
can control. It is very common lo be nervous. So, 
it is important to know that you are certainly not 
alone. We suggest starting by accepting that you 
will be nervous, thai it is okay, and that ihe person 
you are spending time with is probably nervous as 
well. We can't escape being human. 

Also, understand thai our suggestions are 
simple, yet the implementation of new thinking 
and behaviors is not necessarily easy. The goal 
is that you feel like you are being the person you 
normally are with others. Sometimes we have a 
tendency to be who we ihink other people want 
us to be, or who we think that they think we are. 
That is extremely confusing, and to be quite 
honest, what other people think of us is none of 
our business. 

Focus on being comfortable, saying nice things 
to yourself, and asking questions that truly allow 
you to get to know the person you are spending 
time with. We have heard all of the questions 
that we are told to ask someone, but we think that 
more authentic connections take place when you 
go beyond the "surface" and into the "self." Be in 
the moment, try to turn off your racing thoughts 
aboul what the other person is thinking about you, 
or what you are supposed to ask or say next, and 
just be. Listen. Enjoy yourself and enjoy the other 



person. Then, even if you decide there wasn't a 
connection made with the other person, you have 
still kept the authentic connection with yourself. 
This fact is completely indispensible, and the more 
you practice being in the moment and having fun 
while spending lime, the easier it will become. 

"I recendy saw that my friend joined your 
group on Facebook. What is so unique about 
your philosophy?" 

--Kamari, Wisconsin 
We appreciate your question Kamari, thank- 
you. First, we suggest you check out our podcasts 
which will answer your quesiion in greater detail. 
But to respond briefly, our philosophy genuinely 
focuses on you instead of the "other person." and 
we are comfortable with the details being different. 
We make no assumptions about who our listeners 
or readers are, where they are in their lives, or what 
they (and those around them) enjoy. 

Because we help people focus on their own 
process rather than offering cookie cutter goals, 
and on progress rather than perfection, we hope 
lhat people will feel good about who they are and 
what they want instead of trying to measure up to 
a template that bears little resemblance to HFe as 
ihey are living it. 

Also, we try to help people understand that 
being joyful in the fulfillment of their authentic 
selves is what defines success in relationships, 
not the artificial checkpoints and goals commonly 
heard from dating literature. We are instead telling 
people to stop dating and to start spending time. 
We ask that people begin to think differently 
about the pursuit of romance and relationships. 
We encourage people to spend time with people 
they enjoy with no ends attached, rather than 
obsessing over checkpoints and milestones that 
supposedly offer them secrets to finding the mate 
of their dreams. 




Check us out on Facebook: 

The Stop Dating Show! or go to 

istopdating.com for podcasts. 



Send your questions to 
wil@istopdating.cotn &amp; 
bemadette@istopdating.com 



April 28, 2010 



OPINION 



Opera Mini™ 



From Page 4 



Opera Mini's strengths lie in the zoom available, which makes links a 

different feature set it has from Safari, little hard to click sometimes. However. 

Opera Mini's greatest claim is that it zooming in and out is easy with the 

improves browsing speed, especially on tap-to-zoom, and the browser's "back" 

low speed networks, such as EDGE, by button moves through previous zoom 

compressing the page. Unfortunately, levels in addition to moving through 



I was not able to make a head to 
head test regarding claim, but I have 
observed the results of other reviewers, 
and mi appears Opera Mini loads pages 



pages. Swiping two fingers : 

screen also moves between zoom 

levels. 

One of the most anticipated features 



significandy faster on an EDGE network of Opera Mini was the tabbed browsing, 

than Safari. However, casual browsing which allows it to handle several pages 

on a wi-fi network feels to be about at once, more iike a traditional desktop 

the same speed, with Opera having a browser. The tabbing system allows the 

slight advantage, because it renders the user to switch quickly between pages, 



but doesn't take 
up room on the 
screen; instead 
the user calls up 
the tab list when 
it is needed. Oth- 
er nice features 

to Safari, which renders the page that Opera Mini includes are live in- 
when it is viewed, which leads to page search, and a "Start Page," which 



whole page as 
it loads and lets 
the user browse 
the whole 

page while it 
is still loading, 



"Opera Mini's greatest claim 

is that it improves browsing 

speed, especially on low speed 

networks, such as EDGE..." 



"checkerboarding," while the page 
renders. 

There are some interface differences 
that can lead to frustration when using 
Opera at first, but they become second 
nature rather quickly. For example, 
rather than double tapping to zoom 
i on a column, a single tap will do. 



can hold the user's most visited page. 

One of the major advantages 
that Safari still has over Opera Mini 
is in mobile pages. Google's mobile 
interfaces are not available in Opera 
Mini, which loads the standard HTML 
pages. Links on the Home Screen can 
only be made from Safari. Furthermore, 



Also, pinch-to-zoom doesn't work, so any pages with links on the Home 
the column width is the maximum Screen will open in Safari. 



NOW HIRING 



Route Delivery Driver 
For Local Fort Wayne Area 
Full &amp; Part Time 

Commission Based Pay Positions for Motivated Individuals 
Experience Not Necessary-but Will train. Flexible Hours and 
Some Weekends Required. CDL License Not Required, Trucks 
Equipped with Automatics, Clean Shaven Policy Required. 

Gall 1-800-622-6566 
Ask for Craig or Joe 



Sudoku 

Fill in the grid so that every row, column and 
3x3 box contains the numbers 7 through 9. 

Answer to last weeks 
sudoku: 





4 


1 




3 










8 9 


7 


4 


s 


? 


fi 


1 3 


5 6 


a 


a 


9 




4 


? 7 
























1 


2 


9 




6 


6 6 


r 


? 


4 


9 


7 


3 1 


1 7 


4 


3 


fi 


S 


? 


8 9 


















3 








7 






4 


9 4 


1 


Fi 


? 


fi 


a 


7 8 


7 8 


5 


9 


3 


4 


1 


6 2 




2 


9 


1 




5 










yOU CAN BE 

PUBLISHED 

TOO.' 

Ace you a 

STUDENT? . 
FACULTY? 
youe stogies 


3 


8 






4 






1 


5 








6 




3 


8 


9 




1 






5 








6 




8 




5 


7 


6 


















9 




5 


7 




a 


JL 


IN 


r. 









Horoscopes 



For the Week 





ARIES (Mar. 21- April 20) You need to mingle with 
people who can spark enthusiasm and confidence in you, 
Don't be too quick to blame others for your bad mood. 
You'll be prone to tears if your mate is harsh with you this 
week. Partnerships could be tense. Don't push your luck. 

TAURUS (Apr. 21- may 21)You have bent over 
backward trying to help them and now it's time to let them 
stand on their own two feet. Someone you live with will get 
angry if you are neglecting your duties. Self-deception is 
likely. You can learn a great deal more if you listen rather 
than rant and rave. 



GEMINI (May 22-lune 21) Romance will unfold 
through business trips. Fitness or weight loss pro grams will 
help your self esteem. Avoid lending money or belongings 
to friends. Your reputation will be affected. 



CANCER (June 22-Iuly 22} Pursue outdoor activities 
or any physical exertion. Avoid arguments with relatives 
who might be conservative and outdated. Don't jump into 
investments too quickly. Look into projects that you feel 
would con tribute something to your appearance. 

LEO (J uly 23-Aug 22) It might be best to keep your ideas 
to yourself this week. Renovations to your domestic scene 
will pay high rewards. Travel could include delays and other 
minor problems. Someone you work with may be trying to 
make you look bad. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23 -Sept. 23) Try not to hesitate; act on 
your initial instincts. You can make changes to your domestic 
scene that will benefit all who reside there. Real estate 
ventures will be to your ad vantage. Avoid. extravagance or 
risky financial schemes. 

LIBRA (Sept.24 -Oct. 23)Youcanaskforfavors but don't 
take them for granted. You may be offered opportunities 
that will result in a higher earning potential. You may have 
more to do with children this week; keep an open mind. 
You'll find it easy to charm members of the opposite sex this 
week. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 24 - Nov. 22) You may find that you 
can be the recipient of valuable information if you're willing 
to be a good listener. Don't let relatives stand in the way of 
your personal plans. You could have a need to make some 
changes this week. You need to reevaluate your situation. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23 -Dec. 21) Don't let children 
holdyoubackfromdoingthingsyou enjoy. Legal matters that 
have been pending maybe alleviated through compromise. 
You could be tempted to overspend on unnecessary items. 
Listen to the advice given by those with experience. 

CAPRICORN (Dec 22.- Jan. 20) Time to deal with 
institutional environments, government agencies, and 
matters of a private nature this week. If you're looking to do 
something worthwhile, consider volunteer work. Be willing 
to listen, but don't be fooled. You can make major gains 
professionally by completing projects on time. 



AQUARIUS ()an. 21 -Feb. 19} Changes in your 
residence may be financially favorable. Your talent will 
be recognized. You may not see your situation clearly. 
Confronting a situation will only result in indignation and 
misunderstandings. 



PISCES (Feb. 20-Mar. 20) Partnerships could be tense. 
Don't push your luck. Be creative in your pursuits. Finish 
up any correspondence by early afternoon. Make changes 
around your house and plan to do some entertaining. 



\ ProvidedbyastrologY-online.com 



April 28, 2010 . Movies . Music . Theatre . 



Page 6-7 




Maria Cowa 



Photo by LucasXarterlJ.ucaiCarterPhotography.com 



By Holly Gallaway 

gjllhjOlOllurlciitupfw cdu 



After being mesmerized by the spinning of 
the potter's wheel in the ceramics room of the 
Visual Am building, it's clear to see why senior 
Maria Coward enjoys ceramics so much. She's a 
Bachelor of Fine Arts major in Ceramics and only 
has one semester left at IPFW. She participated 
in the recent BFA Senior Showcase in the Visual 
Arts building, showing at least six pieces she 
completed. Coward has participated in various 
other shows around Indiana, including the 
Artlink self-portrait show in Fort Wayne and 
the Northeast Indiana College Student show. In 
the latter show, Coward placed second overall. 
She is also a member of the Student League; 
they put on an annual museum night as well as 
coffeehouse shows around town. 

Currently, Coward is Focused on just moving 
towards the summer. She wants to experiment 
more with glazing techniques. For those who 
don't know, glazing is the most chemically- 
oriented aspect of ceramics. Glaze is a thin coat 
of glass and silicate, put on the piece before the 
final firing (heating the clay piece in a kiln to a 
specific temperature). Similar to photography 
finishes, it can be gloss, satin, or matte. During 
the glazing is when the colors go into the clay 
piece. Coward's pieces in the Senior Showcase 
focused on blues and reds. Some were 
utilitarian, while others were purely artistic. 



Coward's exposure to art be 
was young— her dad is an artist \ 
in signs and ponrail drawings. 
was in high school, she began tal 
In her "junior or senior year," one 
finally pushed her to develop hei 
Coward took up ceramics and p 
"it's relaxing." After spending a 
simply watching Coward finish 
project and start another, I agrei 
relaxing (and slightly hypnotizini 

While Cowanl wants to open I 
eventually, she's planning on 
After graduating, she wants to 
Corps. Joining the Peace Corp 
Coward has wanted to do sine 
but she realized that she would 
useful after she earned her colle 
also wants to spend some time | 
much as she can and gathering I 
she will hopefully use all thraiig 
also said she wouldn't mind alte 
school "in a couple years," bui 
travel first and |&gt;et some experit 
belt. 

When asked what she like 
ceramics, Coward explained hoi 
to her. When asked if ceramics 
all, she responded, "It's about 
Coward doesn't mind getting a 
she works with clay all day. She 
and various tools to mold gentle 
work. She really does use her se 
feel how she wants to mold the c 



Birth play performed in NefflOl 



By Corinne Johnson 

lohndOKhludenliipfvicdu 



The moans of childbirth and the roar of "My Body 
Rocks" echoed through the walls of Neff 101 as the 
play Birth premiered at IPFW. 

Binh, a play by writer and childbirth advocate Karen 
Brody, captures the truth about the childbirth crisis 
today: that it is failing most low-risk pregnant women. 
The play, performed as part of a global activist theatre 
movement known as BOLD, uncovers the secret lives 
of low-risk women in labor as they confront coercion 
in hospitals and uncover 'my body rocks' strategies 
for obtaining a powerful birth experience. Through 
the stories of eight women the audience begins to 
understand the truth behind how low-risk women are 
giving birth today. 

Brody interviewed more than 100 mothers around 
the country to compile the stories that are portrayed in 
the play. "The eight women you meet in Birth are the 
most typical stories I heard across America. Everything 
they say was told to me by the mothers I interviewed. I 
hope their stories crack open a door for you to a world 
few of us really, truly know. Birth," said Brody in her 
biographical information. 

Obstetrician-gynecologist and best-selling author 
Christiane Northrup, MD, a BOLD supporter, says, 
"Now it's time to free birth canals - and pregnant 
women everywhere. And that is the power and glory 
contained in this magnificent, funny and wonderfully 
wise play. And also for BOLD, the organization that is 
getting the word out about the joys of normal birth." 

"Childbirth today is a human rights issue for 



low-risk pregnant mothers," states Brody. "Choices 
in childbirth have been severely restricted for this 
large population of pregnant women despite strong 
evidence-based research supporting a wide variety of 
birth choices." 

Brody founded BOLD in 2006 with the intention 
to use her play to raise awareness and money to 
promote childbirth choices. "Pregnancy today is 
typically viewed as an illness and emergency. BOLD 
uses theatre to raise people's consciousness that 
childbirth is normal. Once this is recognized people 
will start demanding a childbirth model of care that is 
compassionate, evidence-based and puts the mother 
at the center of her birth experience." Money raised 
during the IPFW performance will go to support The 
Doula Network of Fort Wayne. 



Book to Mov 

10 Things I Hate About } 




By Holly Gallaway 

galltoOl Ojtudenti ipfwulu 



One never would have 
guessed, when watching Heath 
Ledger dance across concrete 
bleachers while singing "Can't 
Take My Eyes Off of You," that 
the movie was based on a play by 
William Shakespeare. However, 
10 Tilings I Hate About You (yes, 
the one that was recently made 
into a television show] is clearly 
based on 77ie Taming of the 
Shrew. 

The plotline follows the 
Stratford sisters, Katarina 
(the eldest) and Bianca (the 
youngest). The basic plotline 
of each is that Bianca wants to 
date (pr. in Shakespeare's case, 
be courted), but their father does 
not allow Bianca to date until 
Kat dates. So. the boy that wants 
to date (or court) Bianca finds a 
suitable man to try to date Kat. 
Said boy persuades said man to 
do so by paying him. It's a fairly 



simply plotline, but 
version gives it a mo 
day twist while addi 
the details, such as 
names, in. The s 
also pays homage t 
himself, with two cl 
reluctant couple) the 
line- of Shakespea 
throughout almost 
movie, ending at 
when. the male attei 
as William Shakespe; 
female is dressed as i 
thecooxt. 

Tnie to any "sum 
plotline, each of di 
sisters finds love In tl 
finds love with the m 
hired to date her, w 
finds love with a 
contender, not tht 
wanted lobe with. Hi 
comedy for teens 
captures a youthful 
what Shakespeare wi 
ago. This movie shoi 
can appear where ani 
least e 



Photo by Corinne Johnson / johnd016students.ipfw.edu 




Page 6-7 



toward 



Coward's exposure to art began when she 
vas young— her dad is an artist working mainly 
n signs and portrait drawings. When Coward 
vas in high school, she liegan taking art classes, 
n her "junior or senior year, "one other teachers 
inally pushed her to develop her own interests, 
toward took up ceramics and pottery because 
its relaxing." Alter spending almost an hour 
imply watching Coward finish throwing one 
iroject and start another, I agree it is definitely 
elaxJng (and slightly hypnotizing). 

While Coward wants to open her own gallery 
ivcntually, she's planning on travelling first. 
Vftcr graduating, she wants to join the Peace 
~orps. joining the Peace Corps is something 
toward has wanted to do since high school, 
&gt;ut she realized that she would be much more 
iseful after she earned her college degree. She 
ilso wants to spend some time just learning as 
in n 1 1 as she can and gathering knowledge that 
he will hopefully use all through life. Coward 
ilso said she wouldn't mind attending graduate 
chool "in a couple years," but she wants to 
ravel first and get some experience under her 
&gt;e!t. 

When asked what she likes most about 
:eramics, Coward explained how relaxing it is 
o her. When asked if ceramics was difficult at 
ill, she responded. "It's about feeling, really." 
toward doesn't mind getting a little dirty, as 
he works with clay all day. She uses her hands 
ind various tools to mold gentle curves into her 
vork. She reallydaes use her sense of touch to 
eel how she wants to mold the clay. 



to Movie: 

I Hate About You 



simply plotline, but the movie 
version gives it a more modem- 
day twist while adding some of 
the details, such as the specific 
names, in. The screenwriter 
also pays homage to the Bard 
himself, with two characters (a 
reluotant couple) that speak the 
lines of Shakespearean plays 
throughout almost the entire 
movie, ending at the prom, 
when. the male attends dressed 
as William Shakespeare and the 
female is dressed as a woman of 
the court. 

True to any "summer movie" 
plotline, each of die Stratford 
sisters finds love in the end. Kat 
finds love with the man who was 
hired ro dale her. while Bianca 
finds love with an unlikely 
contender, not the boy she 
wanted to be with. This romantic 
comedy for teens completely 
captures a youthful version of 
what Shakespeare wrote so long 
ago. This movie shows that love 
can appear where and when one 
leas* expects it. 



t have 
g Heath 
:oncrete 
g "Can't 
iu." that 
i play by 
lowever, 
foil -(yes, 
ly made 
s clearly 
; of the 

ws the 
Katarina 
ica (the 
plotline 
.vants to 
■e's case, 
her does 
ne until 
at wants 
a finds a 
late Kai. 
I man to 
s a fairly 



2'MiaO ROBIN'S 
2W3IV3JREVIEWS 






RVIVR 



Artist: Rvivr 

A\bum- Self-Tirk-d 

Label: Unsigned 

Release Date: April 23, 2010 

Sounds Like: The best parts 
of Latterman with a tough-girl 
vocalist added. 

Rating: 4.5/5 

Initially of the bands 
Latterman and Shorebirds, 
Matt Can in o does not prove to 
be a common thread that holds 
musical outfits together as a 
memberoftwo other bands that 
have broken up. Though this 
is true, the bands that he has 
been in have all been virtually 
flawless, although short lived. 

As Rvivr's first full-length 
release, the self-titled LP proves 
this still to be true (minus the 
early departure of Canino). 



Implemented now are the 
talents p| T a.— female;* vocalist, 
providing an entirely new curve 
to Canino's typical repertoire. 
The guitars are crunchy, both 
vocal styles are imperfect, and 
this album has every lick of 
punk rambunctiousness that 
one could hope for. 

Some stand out tracks 
include "Grandma" and "Cold 
in Your Bones" which begins 
almost like an early Lawrence 
Arms song, progressing into 
weaving guitars and fast 
percussion. Also, in both of 
the above tracks, the female 
vocalist is showcased famously 
and flawlessly. 

This is an album to check out 
for sure. Make certain to blare 
this with your car windows 
rolled down on a sunny day. 




Artist: The Flatliners 
Album: Cavalcade 
Label: Fat Wreck 

Chords 

Release Date: April 13, 

2010 

Sounds Like: New punk 

rock with curly guitars 

and abrasive vocals. 
Rating: 3/5 



Although The 

Fladiners have undergone 
some drastic stylistic 
changes, their music is 
enjoyable yet it is strange 
to hear such a transition 
occur with such a small 
library of music. 

Their earlier music 
presented itself as third- 
wave ska, not in its purest 
sense but very much in 



that vein regardless. Now, 
though, they present their 
sound in a modern punk 
rock and even hardcore 
sense occasionally. 

In a song or two they 
draw back to their ska 
roots, but for the most 
part they stick to the 
abrasive sounds of punk, 
much akin to Over Stars 
and Gutters and I lot Water 
Music, however they don't 
do it entirely well. 

The percussion is 
great, parts of the guitars 
wrap around the music 
swimmingly, but even 
still something just 
doesn't sound quite right. 
This album is worth a 
listen or two, but my 
recommendations stand 
with their earlier sounds. 



Movies Opening this Week 

1 April 30, 2010 

Nightmare on Elm Street {2010) 
(wide) 





April 28,2010 



STUDENT ISSUES 



So... How does it work? 

A brief glimpse of the graduation ceremony 



By Louisa Dantelson 

danilaOlOi tuttHinlptw.edu 

Okay, you filled out the form lo say that you were 
graduating. You've been audited to make sure that 
there aren't any classes you stitl have to take in order 
to get your diploma. You know that there is open 
seating at the Commencement ceremony, so that 
you can invite as many people as you'd like to fill 
up that 20.000-seat stadium. You've even purchased 
your black or gray gown, which can be de-wrinkled 
by shower steam, but can't be washed, ironed or dry- 
cleaned. But what really goes on at commencement? 

The statistics for the actual ceremony are fairly 
impressive. About 800 - 900 students will take 'the 
walk.' 8000-9000 observers will be in the stands of the 



"The IPFW American Sign Language 

Choir will sign the national anthem 

for the ceremony." 



Coliseum stadium, watching. 160 faculty members 
will beassistingwith the ceremony. 2500-3000 people 
will participate in the Graduation Celebration after 
the commencement ceremony. Ml official diplomas 
will be picked up after the commencement ceremony 
- graduates will be handed a blank folder during the 
graduation. The real diplomas - in red folders for 
IU and black and gold folders for Purdue - will be 
distributed during the Graduation Celebration. 

This year, the IPFW American Sign Language Choir 
will sign the national anthem for the ceremony. Guest 
vocal soloist Nathanael Thomas will also perform a 
selection for the event. The IPFW wind ensemble will 
provide all the live music for the processions in and 
out of the stadium. Students who are graduating are 
not given a time to rehearse their walk. However, the 
staff and faculty who act as leaders for the different 




Photo by Marianne Mesimann 

Above: Put your text in right here, and make sure it describes your picture well. 



groups of students will have a run-through, just so 
thai everyone is on the same page. 

Because the University has used the stadium for 
so many years for the ceremony, they get to use the 
entire facility for the big event. According to Marianne 
Messmann, Coordinator of Academic Ceremonies, 
the Coliseum is reserved up to five years in advance 
of the graduation date. Official contracting of the 
space takes place a year before each graduation. "We 
use the whole space and that's why we get it that far 



in advance," she explained. 

Are people excited to be graduating? Chancellor 
Wartell says they definitely are. "The important thing 
about our ceremony is that it's for and about the 
graduates and their families. It's the culmination of 
all their hard work... For them to be exuberant about 
it, I think, is wonderful," he said, explaining that there 
is cheering and a general feeling of celebration that 
takes over the stadium. "It really is incredible," he 
said, "it's really a fun ceremony.. . it gives you energy." 



The day my cell phone died; a hike through Fort Wayne 



By Corinne Johnson 

, 'j 1 1 di 1 (' 3 . :, i u J ,■ i 1 1 . 1 1 ■ I .V .; I.i 'J 



When my class was canceled, 1 at- 
tempted to call for my ride, only to find 
that my cell phone was dead — again. 
It has not been holding a charge very 
well, and if I had been more prepared,! 
wouldn't be writing this. I knew that 
no one would even think to worry 
about me for at least three hours. This 
knowledge made me decide I'd just 
walk. It's not that far. I told myself. 

I headed out from Neff Hall and 
walked to the far north end of cam- 



pus. That wasn't so hard, even with 30 
pounds of books on my back. I saw an 
apartment complex and since there 
appeared to be no fences, and 1 didn't 
see any glaring 'Stay Out' signs, I head- 
ed through the parking area between 
two buildings. Keeping the sun to my 
back, and trusting my instincts to get 
me home, 1 entered the golf course at 
tin 1 end of the buildings. It was in use, 
so I walked along the edge. Icontinued 
through more housing until I reached 
the St. Joseph River. I knew I could fol- 
low the river to Sl Joe Center Rd, and 
then I'd be halfway home. As I made 
the twists and turns of the sidewalks 



in the housing community, trying to 
keep my eye on the river, I eventually 
made my way between two buildings 
and down to the water. 

I walked along the edge, between 
the trees and the houses, feeling a bit 
like 1 was invading someone's back- 
yard. But, it was quiet, and no one was 
around. I kept walking. The mossy 
grass was more difficult than I'd imag- 
ined it would be and my legs began 
to feel the strain of the terrain. As the 
trees along the river and the houses 
came closer together, I was worried 
that I would not be able to get through. 
Then, like an answered prayer, the en- 



trance to a trail emerged. I followed 
(hi.- path, and began to relax, as I felt I 
was no longer in someone's yard. Sev- 
eral others were enjoying the trail as 
well. I saw a squirrel looking at me and 
stopped to take a photo of him. I kept 
my camera out and captured a variety 
of shots as I with . I forgot about the 
length of my walk as I focused on die 
shots I could capture along this wood- 
ed trail Then the trail ended and an- 
other housing development began. I 
made my way behind the homes along 
the edge of the river again. 

► CELLPHONE: Page 9 



Fort Wayne School Board President to IPFW 



By Peter Schnellenberger 

f&gt; j i fc c i g tf » g nu il i o m 



On Thursday April 22, Mark Gia- 
Quinta the President of Fort Wayne 
Community Schools (FWCS) 'school 
board visited the IPFW campus. Ac- 
companying him was FWCS Chief Fi- 
nancial Officer, Kathy A. Friend. The 
duo's purpose was to accomplish two 
things. First, to inform students about 



what the school board is and does. Sec- 
ond, to follow up on Governor Mitch 
Daniel's forum from the week before. 

GiaQuinta and Friend, wanted to 
make clarifications about the plausi- 
bility of a suggestion Daniels' made 
for saving money in the state school 
systems - the privatization of bus and 
meal services. 

At the Governor's forum, Daniels 
suggested that the government could 



save schools' money by not owning or 
running school buses and kitchens. He 
suggested that by turning to the yellow 
pages school, government can private 
companies that can "do things better 
than the government can". 

This is not the case for FWCS, 
claimed Friend. She said, because of 
the way that funds are allocated, most 
times, money cannot be moved from 
one account to another. 



For example, money used to fund 
bus services comes from "the trans- 
portation fund" and that money can 
be used for transportation purposes. 
To reallocate those funds for any other 
purpose would be "illegal under state 
law", said Friend. 

GiaQuinta said, that while the 
school board and the Governor don't 
see eye to eye that they aren't 
they simply "agree to disagree". 




ril 28,2010 



STUDENT ISSUES 



P. 9 



I kept walking, slowly imdging slower and slower and my shoulders 

through the grass until I came to a growing tense. The weight of the pack 

fence. I could see the bridge on St. Joe was cutting off my circulation and my 

Center Rd through the trees. I could fingers were tingling. I kept walking, 

have gone over it, but a gentleman was I passed another street. I imagined 

enjoying the view of the water from his sticking out my thumb in a hitchhikers 

backyard and I felt I would be invading pose but I kept walking. The sun was 

his space. So. I waved hello and turned beating down nn meand the occasional 

back in the opposite direction. Now I breeze was the only break from its heat, 

was backtracking. The backpack was I wondered if passers-by could see the 

getting heavier by the minute. I headed agony on my face. I kept walking, 

up between two apartment buildings I could see the intersection of St. 

and then turned my back to the sun Joe Center and Clinton. If I had been 

again and headed up the drive. I could driving, I'd be nearly there. But, I was 

hear the sound of traffic. walking. 1 was more than halfway, but 

Soon, die road was in sight. I made each step look great effort. My legs felt 

my way out of the weak. I was tired. 

housing complex I thought about giving up. If 
I'd set out to walk and had a 



CORRECTIONS FOR ISSUE 26: 

Governor Mitch Daniels to IPFW was not writ- 
ten by Alex Axthelm, but by Peter Schnellenberger 



working phone, I would have 
sat down and called for a ride." 



1 was hurting. 
I wanted to lie 
down in the grass 
and take a nap. I 
kept walking. 



and behind the 

businesses at the 

corner of St. |oe 

Center and St. loe. 

1 could feel a rush 

of adrenaline as I realized I had made down Clinton, I could see the entrance 

it this far. I could sec the way from this to my subdivision. That's when 1 knew 

point and could pass goal point after (hat any hope of getting a ride was 

goal point until I made it to the finish gone because it was just a little bit 

line. I turned and crossed St. Joe Center further. But. "a little bit" is different in 



near the bridge ;ind headed west. 

I thought about giving up. If I'd set 
out to walk and had a working phone, 
I would have sat down and called 
for a ride. I wanted to quit. I crossed 
Martin Luther I wanted to walk on 



a car than it is on foot. When I reached 
the entrance to our subdivision, I knew ', 
there was only a half mile left to go. I 
knew I could make it now. Suddenly, I 
fell strong. My body was still tired and 
hurting, but at that moment. I knew I 



the pavement where ihere would be could make it all the way. I could see 

less resistance, but the cars were loo a rccliner waiting there for me to fall 

close to the edge, so I walked in the into. All 1 had to do was get there, and I 

grass. I could feel my legs moving knew I could. 




Ever mnstte red world ngfot The Commura tor' 

ow's Your 
Chance. 

The Communicator has an opening for the following position starting Fall 2010 

AD MANAGER 




nice Place 
nice price 




April 28,2010 



GREEN PAGE 



P. 10 



Shades of Green: Apple, all about the 'green 



By April Ehrlkh 

Daily frUn-UI 5ur&lt; FullHto- 



Apple knows its primary target well 
enough, which can be generally en- 
capsulated as gadget-obsessed techics 
who may or may not have some con- 
cern Tor the environment. And that's 
where its money lies - gadgets. Unfor- 
tunately, after plowing through every 
possible consumerist invention rang- 
ing from computers to music players to 
cell phones, the Apple store has run out 
of ideas.That's when the iPad enters the 
high-and-dry scene. Now, you can own 
an over sized iPod touch with a unique 
and completely unexpected name: the 
iPad! 

Gecz. who would of thought? Nev- 
er before was I able to read e-books, 
watch YouTubc videos, 

or listen to music on "The iPad is saving the Greenpeace, 
my MacBook because , , - „ an enormous energy- 

this overbearing key- WOr,d '" man V wa V s - whoring "cloud" of on- 
board has always been line services, which is 
in the way. And who really needs more stamping a larger carbon footprint on 
than 16 gigabytes of space or to run this planet than previously expected. 
more than one application at a time? Basically, when any iPad owner 

The iPad is saving the world in watches a YouTube video, reads an 
many ways. With just $500 to S700, ev- email or downloads an e-book, they are 
erybody can own this essential device reaching up into a network of energy 
that allows you to do everything your utilized by millions of interconnected 
MacBook and iPod touch couldn't (oh websites that are streaming. 
wait, what was that again?) networking, storing, emailing and 



Another proclaimed feat is that this 
is an essentially "green" product. It in- 
cludes eco-friendly features such as 
an enclosure made from recycled alu- 
minum, power-saving LED displays 
(as opposed to LCD), mercury-free 
back-lighting and an arsenic-free dis- 
play glass. Meanwhile, the entire prod- 
uct is not made with PVC a chemical 
commonly found in computer power 
chords, which releases toxic com- 
pounds when put in landfills. 

The iPad's battery also lasts 10 
hours, making it more battery- efficient 
than a laptop. According to Green Liv- 
ing Tips, the battery is reusable for 
other applications even after it has 
reached the end of its life. 

Despite its recyclable design and 

ability to conserve battery energy, the 

iPad eats at a much larger source of 

power* According to 




much, much more. 

Greenpeace's report "'Make IT 
Green: Cloud Computing and its Con- 
tribution to Climate Change" shows 
that at this rate, this cloud of data 
centers and telecommunication net- 
works will consume about 1,963 billion 
kilowatts hours of electricity in 2020. 
That is more than the current electric- 
ity consumption of France. Germany. 
Canada and Brazil combined. 

Even so, this all doesn't change the 
fact that the mere existence of the iPad 
is wasteful. Even if it had no internet 
access, and thus couldn't devour this 
supposed cloud of interconnected en- 



Photo by Flickr.com/ Rego 



ergy, we'd still be driving our cars to the 
nearest mall, texting and calling our 
friends along the way, and walking into 
the Apple store to fish out a credit card 
that hasn't already been maxed out. 
Hello, debt! Hello, failing economy! 

Of course, I'm caught up in this in- 
ternet mess just as much as anybody 
and I am also a victimized owner of 
Apple products. Don't get me wrong, 
they're incredibly convenient. Still, the 
iPad is merely a regurgitation of preex- 
isting Apple products, thus making it a 
waste of time and resources, addition- 
ally signifying that the company has 
run out of ideas. 



The 



Communicator 



A publication of Indiana-Purdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 



Aaron Greene 
Editor-in-Chief 

Kelly McLendon 
Managing Editor 

Neal Quandt 
Copy Editor 

Robin Crowell 
A&amp;E Editor 

Peter Schnellenberger 
Politics &amp; Money Editor 

Monica Gerdeman 
Sports Editor 

Kassi Galbreath 
Layout Designer 

Craig Lloyd 
Web Editor 

Lucas Carter 
Photography Editor 

Alisha Humbert 
Ad Manager 

Matt McClure 

Publisher 



IPSNInc 

Walb Union Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd East 
Fori Wayne. IN 46805 

Newsroom /Editor 

(260)481-6534 

contact®ipfw&lt; 



Advertising 

(260)481-6533 

ad sftipfwcommu nicatoroig 




April 28, 2010 



SPORTS 



p. 11 



IPFW fell three more 

Cronin sets her career strikeout record 



By Monica Gerdeman 

m gerdemjnlOOTehotrtuil.toiTi 



IPFW's very own Courtney Cronin was able to shine 
last Friday as she set her career strikeout record and also 
the school's all-time strikeout leader against Western Illi- 
nois University. 

Although Cronin was able to pick up the spot light, the 
'Dons as a team were unable to fulfill the evening with 
a win. (6-0, 1-0.) The team came in the game with only 
one win in the conference, and with the two losses by the 
Leathernecks IPFW lost their first place spot for the title. 

Neither team produced much offence in the first part 
of the first game, until Illinois started from the bottom up, 
scoring four. After a fun in both the fifth and sixth innings, 
the Lea the necks never looked back from victory lane, as 
they soon after finished the first game of the night. 

Game two ended in about the same fashion, although 
the Mastodon defence was 

able ,o hold WIU to only » An(| w!th „,,, fm0 
one run. 

Moving on to Saturday, lOSSeS... IPFW lOSt 
the 'Dons hosted a third their first place spot 

Tn t r h ,;'; P H™ i , lh ,"!; n , oisand for the title." 

still fell to defeat, 3-2. 

Both Rachel Staschuk 
and Sara Hopwood each went 2 for 4 and Staschuk scored 
IPFW's first run of the day. Cronin took the loss as she feel 
to 15-9 on her season with six strikeouts and one walk. 

In the top of the ninth, Stacey Swinford was beaned 
with two outs and was moved to third on an Ava Hall dou- 
ble. A pitching error scored Swinford and gave the 'Dons a 
short-lived lead at 2-1. 

Western Illinois answered back scoring two, and kept 
their third win of the weekend, sealing the deal at 3-2. 

The Mastodons return to action on Wednesday, April 
28, when the team travels to Ypsilanti, Michigan, to take Above: Pitcher Courtney Cronin (sopho- 
on Eastern Michigan University. more), who was the team's all-time strike- 

out leader. 

60 Second Sports Report 




Photo by Lucas Carter/ Lucas Carte rPt)Dtography.cc 



By Lucas Fisher 



When the draft started on Thursday the Rams 
wasted no time to pick the quarterback, Sam Brad- 
ford. With this pick they selected a person that can be 
the face of the franchise and turn the team around. 
The second and third picks of the draft by the Detroit 
Lions and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers were big ones 
to sure up the defensive line; they picked defensive 
tackles Ndamukong Suh and Gerald McCoy. With 
the fourth pick the Redskins picked offensive tackle 
Trent Williams, with pick five the Chiefs picked a big 
hitter in safety Eric Berry, and with the sixth pick the 
Seahawks got offensive line help Russell Okung. The 
Browns picked cornerback loe Haden with the sev- 
enth pick, with the eighth pick the Raiders got line- 
backer Rolando McClain, with the ninth pick the Bills 
surprised some by getting running back CJ , Spiller, 
and rounding out the top ten the Jaguars picked de- 
fensive tackle Tyson Alualu, which was a huge sur- 
prise to everyone. 

The rest of the first round went down as follows: 
ll-49ers-OT Anthony Davis, 12-Chargers-RB Ryan 
Mathews, 13-Eagles-LB Brandon Graham, 14-Se- 
ahawks-S Earl Thomas, 15-Giants-DE Jason Pierre 
Paul. 16-Titans-DE Derrick Morgan, 17-49ers-OG 
Mike lupati, 18-Steelers-C Maurkice Pouncey, 19-Fal- 
cons-LB Sean Wnherspoon, 20-Texans-CB Kareem 
lackson, 21 -Bengals-TE Jermaine Gresham, 22-Bron- 
cos-WR Demaryius Thomas, 23-Packers-OT Bryan 
Bulaga, 24-Cowboys-WR Dez Bryant, 25-Broncos-QB 
Tim Tebow, 26-Cardinals-DT Dan Williams, 27-Pa- 
triots-DB Devin McCourty, 28-Dolphlns-DT Jared 
Odrick. 29-|ets-DB Kyle Wilson, 30-Lions-RB Jahvid 



Best. 31-Colts-LB Jerry Hughes, and 32-Saints-CB 
Patrick Robinson. 

Some notable picks that didn't happen on day one 
were: In round two QB Jimmy Clausen to the Pan- 
thers, LB Sergio Kindle to the Ravens, Taylor Mays to 
the 49ers, LB Sean Lee to the Cowboys, WR Golden 
Tate to the Seahawks, and LB Brandon Spikes to the 
Patriots. In round three S Major Wright went to the 
Bears and QB Colt McCoy to the Browns. In round 
four DE Everson Griffen to the Vikings, OT Bruce 
Campbell to the Raiders, and DE Corey Wootton to 
the Bears. In round six S Myron Rolle went to the Ti- 
tans. The crown of Mr. Irrelevant went to WR Timothy 
Toone, who joins the Lions. 

Here are my draft grades: In the AFC East the Bills 
get a C+, the Dolphins get a C, the Patriots get a B, 
and the Jets get a C+. In the AFC North the Ravens 
get a B+, the Bengals get an A-, the Browns get an A-, 
and the Steelers get a B-. In the AFC South theTexans 
get a C, the Colts get a B-, the Jaguars get a D, and the 
Titans get a C+. In the AFC West the Broncos C, the 
Raiders B, the Chiefs B-, and the Chargers get a C. In 
the NFC East the Cowboys gel a B+, (he Eagles get a 
B+, the Giants get a B-, and the Redskins get a C+. In 
the NFC North the Bears get a B-, the Lions get a B+, 
the Packers get a C+. and the Vikings get a C+. In the 
NFC South the Falcons get a C, the Panthers get a B+, 
the Saints get a C+, and the Buccaneers get a B. In the 
NFC West the 49ers get a B. the Cardinals get a C+. the 
Seahawks get a B, and the Rams get a B+. 

The NFL draft was two nights and one long day 
of excitement to get us ready for the upcoming sea- 
son. Now that we know who our favorite teams have 
picked the countdown starts until training camp 
opens. 

For more check out ipfwcommunicalor.org 



Fish Picks vs. 


Pea Predictions 


10 


Mels at Phillies 

Fish: Phillies- Mets not good 

Pea: Phillies- Big bats 


9 


Rockies at Padres 

Fish: Rockies- Gel to Padres 

Pea: Padres- Great pitching 


8 


Giants at Marlins 
Fish: Gianls- Rolling 
Pea: Marlins- Big tish 


7 


White Sox at Yankees 

Fish: Yankees- Sox cannot hang 

Pea: White Sox- ChiSox playing well 


6 


Angels at Tigers 

Fish: Tigers- Angels' struggle conlinues 

Pea: Angels- Fun series 


5 


Tigers at Twins 
Fish: Twins- Are rolling 
Pea: Twins- New park is home 


4 


Rockies at Giants 

Fish: Giants- Big time pitching 
Pea: Rockies- Close 


3 


Angels at Red Sox 

Fish: Red Sox- Struggle in Boston 

Pea: Red Sox- Angels (alter 


2 


Cardinals at Phillies 

Fish: Cardinals- Phils struggle 

Pea: Phillies- Great series 


1 


Floyd Mayweather vs. Shane Mosley 
Fish- Mayweather- Unanimous 
Pea: Mayweather- Amaiing fighl 



Fish: 168-681 Pea: 172-641 

By Lucas Fisher / lucorucoBaeomiLasi net 
By Logan Pea/ pealtO I Students ipfwedu 



April 28,2010 



SPORTS P12 



Summit League Good season ends sadly 

Champs! 



By Logan Pea 

tillOl Sitgdenuipfw-Kl 



By Monica Gerdeman 

m qrrdMnnr\?001QbQ\mat\.&lt;om 



[pFWJunior tennis player Amy Rccht was able 
to come from behind in singles last Saturday af- 
ternoon and the women's tennis team was able to 
shut down Oral Huberts fur a place in the NCAA 
Tournament, the first in the Mastodons history. 

In doubles, Rccht and Ingrid Ballus defeated 
Oral Robert's Lena Semenoya and Tayler Poppin 
B-3, and Yuka Kubayashi and Raquel Vescovi en- 
tertained a crowd against Tori Dollar and Ekat- 
erina Kondrashova 9-8. (also from ORU) 

IPFW then went on to increase their score as 
Vescovi (6-4, 6-3) and Ballus (6-3, 6-2) won both 
singles matches. 

The Dons needed one more singles for the 
win as Recht, Three-time Summit League play- 
er uf the year stepped in to finish the fight. She 
finised her first set 0-6 but came back for the win 
7-6 and moved closer to the finish line taking 
over Semonova 6-4. 

Taking the Summit League title for the 2010 
tournament, and finishing regular seaons as con- 
ference champs was a major accomplishment 
of the women's tennis team. IPFW heads to the 
NCAA tournament with a 24-5 record. Live cov- 
erage of the NCAA Selection Show will air on ES- 
PNews on May 4 at 5:00 p.m. EST.W 



It's been a long season — nearly 
half a year — five months to be ex- 
act. The things you can get accom- 
plished in five months are simply 
unthinkable. Try to put three years 
into perspective. That's how long 
senior MB Oliver Kook put every- 
thing he had into the volleyball 
team.. Kook led the Dons Saturday 
night in the first round of the MIVA 
tournament where sadly they were 
swept by Ball State University, and 
ousted from the tournament, end- 
ing not only the season, but the ca- 
reers of the IPFW seniors Kook and 
Corey Stewart. 

Trying to put his time at IPFW 
in perspective, Kook told me, 
"three years went by lightning fast, 
however, I have millions of memo- 
ries that I will never forget. I made 
friends all over the world. I know 
that the last three years were ev- 
erything but successful from a vol- 
leyball perspective, but along the 
road I will realize that there is way 
more to life than playing volley- 
ball for IPFW and winning games. 
I learned to fight, I learned to go 
beyond physical limits, I learned 
what it takes to be a part of a team, 
of a very special volleyball pro- 




Photo by Lucas Carter I Luc.isC.irtctPholography.corn 



Above: Pictured is senior Oil Kook, who led the Dons in the first 
round of the MIVA tournament on Saturday. 

gram, and a school that has a great ers who will be returning next sea- 
future." son, and their hard work with the 
Kook and Stewart provided se- underclassmen will clearly show 
nior leadership to five IPFW start- on and off the court next year. 




