
In memory of Jawad Valentine's Day YUka Kobayashi 

Page 2 Page 8 Page 10 



Wednesday, February ao, 2010 



Volume 40, Issue 18 



ommunicator 



ipfwcommunicator.org 



nio Need 

to Fret 
FAFSA 



IPFW offers 

professional help 

filling out those 

unpleasant FAFSA 

forms 



By Holly Eggelston 

«ggehm01CitudenlLlpfwf(fu 




February 1 0, 201 



NEWS 



p. 2 



Coffee Break 

by Kim Coffey 






ANTHONY MAN, 
: SOT A JOB! 




THATS THE 

BEST PART! 

I APPLIED WHERE 

VOU WORK. 

AS OF MONBAY, 

WE'LL BE 

CO-WORKERS! 

I SOTTA CALL 

MY PARENTS, 

TALK TO 
YOU LATER! 




In Memory ofJawad Mohammad 



\ 



ByHanaAIHawash 

hauhawashoyshDa.coin 



The sound of Arabic prayers 
spoken from (he Koran filled the 
room with a seemingly resounding 
sound as candles lit the room and 
,the smell of traditional Arabic coffee 
permeated the air. Both American 
and international students filled 
the room, quiet and somber. This 
was the setting last Wednesday 
at a memorial that took place for 
Jawad Mohammad, a student here 
at IPFW, that tragically passed away 
shortly after winter break. Though 
the memorial was a sad event, it was 
also a beautiful and culturally rich 
to honor Jawad's memory. 

lawad arrived at IPFW from 
Kuwait in the fall of 2008. He was 
majoring in Electrical Engineering 
and was named on the Dean's list, 
as well as tlie Honor's list, every 
semester that he was enrolled. 

lawad was not widely known at 
our University, but the people that 
were lucky enough to know him 
thought very highly of him. He was 
the sort of person to help you study 
for a test, give you a ride home or 
even just give you a shoulder to cry 
on. On Jawad's Facebook memorial 
page, people commented on what a 
great person he was. 

"I am absolutely stunned by this 
news! Tiiis is so sad. lawad was a 
very good student and a wonderful 
person. He will be so missed," said 
' Robert Gregory, lawad's former 
Chemistry professor. 

IPFW student Zach Thorn also 
said, "lawad was a remarkable 
person 1 feel lucky to have kjiown 
him. However I feel I know so little 
about him. " 

ll is situations like these that 
teach us how important it is to 
be involved with the people diat 
surround you while you can. 



Learning about fellow students is an 
imponani part of hfe at tliis point. 
Surrounding yourself and learning 
about the people you care about 
is incredibly important; you never 
know how many chances you will 
have. At any time. For any reason, 
the people in your life or (he people 
that could be in your life can be 
taken away; it is a wonderful thing 
to experience as many different lives 
as you possibly can. 

"We.-.wanted to let the IPFW 
campus know that they lost a 
student in this community because 
it is important to be aware that he 
passed away," said Neners-Evon. 
"For us to lose a member of our 
community, particularly a young 
person, that really hit home for 
us. We thouglit..,we have to do a 
memorial event." 

The circumstances surrounding 
Jawad's death appear to be murky as 
itisyettobedeterminedwhatexacdy 
happened. A close friend of Jaivad's 
said that they were in contact on 
his birthday and had plans to hang 
out but for some reason. lawad was 
not responding to calls or messages. 
The friend even tried going to his 
apartment, to no avail. The next day, 
after trying iiis apartment again. 
friends were beyond worried and 
decided to ask die authorities at his 
apartment complex if they knew 
anything. It was discovered that just 
two days after his birthday, he had 
passed away. 

Jawad had planned to move back 
to Kuwait when he graduated to 
return to his family and his former 
job. Even though he never got to 
completehis degree, Jawad achieved 
other things in his life and touched 
many people in the process. 

With all of the things that were 
said about Jawad, Megan Dean 
('12) sums it all in one short, but 
generous, sentence: "RIP lawad. You 
truly were an amazing person." 




\ 



A blessing comes iti many ways, ':. 

For ihis one there are too many words to describe in a single phrase 

Thou^ it may not have lasted as long as we would have wished. 

We are blessed to have his presence in which will be iiussed 

We lost a companion, a leader, and the most humble of all men. 

Yet the hardest part is every night letting go of him again 

He w^as the most generous, loving, and caring determined fiiend. 

Tiie kind of person in which you cannot find but only destiny can send 

It hurtens my heart to know that he is gone and 1 will never be able to li 

upon his face. 

For his smile, his laughter, and his positivity is nothing that you can eve 

replace 

We were blessed from heaven witli the touch of an angel known as Jawad, 
Until he was called into service under our one and only heavenly God 
On his behalf let's not mom a death but embrace a buth, 
For hjs soul now lives in the purest of clouds and no longer on tliis lainl 

earth 

With every blessing in your life you must ^ve ^ce. 

Though there niay be many...none will take the others place 

When death strikes a friend, 

It does not mean that their legacy will end 

The memories within your head will never move on. 

And their presence within your hean will never be gone 

Live on my friend and watch over us all from above. 

For you...wiUiin our heana there will always be love 



-Written by Beza Moraveji 





February 10, 2010 



NEWS 



CHZAPPQQKS ^ 

Sell your textbooks for G^§"' 



International Writing 




Jamaica Kincaid 

Reading and Growing 

Up Under Colonial Rule 

Thursday, February 11, 2010 

7:30 p.m. 

Rhinehart Music Center 



Jamaica Kincaid skillfully tempers the boundary between poetry 
and prose. Born Elaine Potter Richardson, she left her native country 
of Antigua at age 16 bound for New York. Following years of college 
coursewoilf and freelance writing projects, she secured a position at a 
teenage girl's magazine. 

But it was her work in The Village Voice that led to greater promise 
with The New Yorker and her first book. At the Bottom of the River 
(1983). Kincaid's other award-winning novels include Annie John 
(1965), A Smalt Place (1988), and Among Flowers: A Walk in the 
Himalaya (2Q05). 



Series sponsor 



IPFWWsitinaWriltre 
Series olltie 
Department ol English 
and Unguisticj 

Iraersily Council 



Center Week 




By Melissa R. Hirsch 



IPFW's Writing Center will be kick- 
ing orr lis International Writing Center 
Week celebration today. Wednesday, 
February 10. IPFWs Wriiing Ccnier 
plays a fundamental role in the aca- 
demic achievement of IPFW students. 

From February ID llirough Wednes- 
day, February 17. the Writing Center 
will be open to guests who want to visit, 
ask questions, or see what services the 
center can provide during their busi- 
ness hours: Monday through Thursday 
from 10 am to 



provide assistance for mote than just 
English assignments. The Writing Cen- 
ter staff is made up of a variety of stu- 
dents, both undergraduate and gradu- 
ate, that have a wealth of knowledge in 
several areas of study; English, History, 
Education. Psychology', Biology, and 
Uiat s only a fraction of the list. 

Aly Hess, a student at IPFW who is 
studying English with a writingconcen- 
traiion. says that, "Students from every 
department, no matter Iheir experi- 
ence with ivriiing, can benefit from the 
support of the Wriiing Center." Hess, 
who works as an IPFW Wriiing Center 
consultant part-time and as an R.A. in 
[he IPFW Student 
"Did you know that the Housing, enjoys 

Writing Center is a free service ^P^^iding much 

,, „ J .__., of her time with 

to currently enrolled IPFW jp,^. students 

students? It is!" and helping ihem 

with the frustra- 
tion that students 



pm and on Fridays 
from 10 am to 2 
pm. On Wednes- 
day, Februar&gt;' 17 
from 11:00 am to 
2:00 pm, the Writ- 
ing Center will be 

hosting an Open House. You can stop can feel when faced with overwhelm- 
in to visit with consultants, enjoy free ing assignments. "Knowing where to 
snacks and drinks, and receive a token start is half the battle." Hess wants stu- 



of appreciation {while supplies last). 

Did you know that the Writing Cen- 
ter is a free service to currently enrolled 
IPFW students? It is! Did you know that 
the Wriiing Center can help with any- 



dents to know that the Writing Center 
can assist in the brainstorming and or- 
ganizational steps, as well as the steps 
that come towards the end of the writ- 
ing process. Hess acknowledges that 



thing that is language-related? They she has used the Writing Center ser- 
cfln.'The IPFWWriting Center strives to vices and believes that they are helpful. 




Now you can find out 

what's happening 

at IPFW. 

All in one place. 

• Browse official university events, all in one location 

• Subscribe to calendars and receive automatic updates 

• Publish information about your official university events 
■ Find out what's happening at IPFW 

Visit event5.ipfw.fldu, or select the events tab in mylPFW. 




For more information, 

e-maii events@ipfw.edu, 

or call 260-481-6808. 



IPFW 

w 

INDIANA UNIVERSfTY 

PURDUE UNIVERSfTY 

FORT WAYNE 



AD COURTESY OF THE OFFICE OF THE CHANCELLOR 



•-.VWAVTA-AVV^'. 



February 10, 2010 



OPINI 



m 



p. 4 



Smoke Hut Diaries 



By Robin Crowell 

rotirnyDursrJvea^iTuil com 



I am all about getting lo know 
the stories of ihe individuals sur- 
rounding me. but good God have I 
noticed the common trend of inter- 
rupting that is plaguing the huts one 
by one. It's going around faster than 
swine (lu, I'm telling you. 

This semester I've been floating 
back and fonh between the Kelder 
and Ciassroom Medical huls. Natu- 
rally, I'm preity quiet in the Ketller 
hut... silently getting acclimated 
lo a new environment, testing the 
waters, not quite ready to feed the 
sharks. In Ihe CM hut, though, the 
new faces just don't seem to care 
about anything that anyone has to 
say. 

This bothers me to a very lai^e 
extent. As 1 have slated in previ- 
ous entries of tliis column, it is im- 
portant to get to know the stories of 
others; it's imporlant to ask ques- 
tions and il's important to make 
acquaintances. These people jusl 
don't seem to get it. 

Picture this scenario: three indi- 
viduals are gathered around one of 
the ash trays engaged in conversa- 
tion. Maybe the conversation is of 
little to no importance, maybe the 
conversation is about 2012. Who 



cares? Then, amidst an epiphany 
within Ihe conversation, a loud and 
boisterous voice chimes in bring- 
ing in topics that have nothing to do 
with the conversation at hand. In 
an attempt to be kind, the individu- 
als involved in the ongoing conver- 
sation smile, nod, and continue on. 

Then, immediately after the ini- 
tial interruption is brushed off. the 
'inierruptor' at hand raises their 
voice at least nvelve more decibels 
to make sure that their furnished 
comments are heard and it is known 
that whatever they had to say is far 
more imporlant than the ongoing 
topic of the apocalypse. 

My initial reaction is lo turn 
around and punch whoever it is in 
the face. But, typically, I'll hold back 
and nonverbally make it clear how 
rude 1 find their interjections to be. 
If, after my nonverbal communi- 
cation fails to succeed, four letter 
words begin streaming out of my 
mouth. 

The point is to value what other 
individuals have to say. Shut your 
face, open your ears, and learn 
something new. This just goes right 
along with meeting new people and 
understanding the stories of oth- 
ers. How is one lo understand the 
stories of others if all thai matters is 
the word-vomit speiving out of one's 
mouth? 




,^^^adec!Bo//e^^^ 







Saturday, February 13 ® The Coliseum 

Tickets are $10 or 2 for $14 

Tickets are available at ttie Coliseum Box Office 

or www.ticketmaster.com. 

Visit nnn.f Hilerliygirls.coin for mnre inf ormatipa 




How long should you wait before you 
move in with your boyfriend/girlfriend? 

By Hana and Devin 



Devin: 1 say date ihem e.i{clusively for 2 years. Then live together 

Hana: I don't think it's that cut and dry. I guess it's a good lime, after two 
years, but some people would still not be ready for that. 

Devin: Whatever time is right for you. but I would recommend doing it 
before you are married, and living together for a few years before you gel 
married as well. 

Devin: I think two years of exclusive dadng is enough time to figure out if 
you want to constantly have someone around and be even more of a staple 
in your life. 

Hana: Some people, however, want to wait unlit they are married. That 
might be part of the excitement.-.picking a house, getting it ready and 
building the home together as a couple. 

Hana: If you want to move in together before marriage, however, I'd say at 
least a year of being together exclusively is enough but even longer is good... 
depends on how you feel. 

Devin: If they are relying on that kind of excitement as part of their reason 
to get married then they will have a harsh reality to face later on in their 
marriage. 

Hana: Plenty of people do tiiat. 

Devin: That kind of impulsive excitement will not last. 

Hana: It's not impulsive. It's something some people wait their entire lives 
for. 

Hana: You can't judge it like that. People think diffcrendy. 

Devin: What are they going to do when things start to get boring. 

Devin: When everything is not new anymore. 

Hana: That can happen ifyou date or live with someone, too. 

Devin: I would hate to say. I waited my whole life to pick a house with my 
girifriend. To me, marriage will produce a lot greater memories than you can 
expect in the Isiyearofii. 

Devin: Which is why living together is belter in my eyes. 

Devin: You guys get used to each other and get comfortable with being in 
each other's lives. 

Hana: Relationships are not this simple. You can't just judge it. You have lo 
judge it on yourself and who you are with. Everyone can change their mind 
as to whether or not they want to live wilh someone. 

Devin: Actually. I think relationships are very simple. 

Devin: A lot of marriages break up because of expectations not being 
met. Tlie sooner people realize whal being married is actually about, the 
sooner the divorce rate will go down. Ifyou are only getting married for that 
beginning excitement, what are you going to hold onto after it wears off? 
Living together gives you more of an experience of what's lo come. So I think 
people should live together for maybe three years before marriage. 



Got an Opinion? 

Send us your feedback to editonnchief@tpfwcommunicator.Qrg 



February 10,2010 



OPINION 



p. 5 



For the love of traveling: Flight to Jordan 




By Hana At Hawash 



In the last inslaUment of Ihis column, 
I talked aboui one of my most horrifying 
trips [o Palestine via Israel. This week, I 
will tell you about my trip to Palestine via 
Jordan. 

When my mom told me that she was 
buying tickets for our family to go visit 
family in Palestine over winter break, I 
was ecstatic. I was hoping that we would 
fly through Israel so that I would have 



more exciting travel adventures to tell 
you about, but then 1 was informed 
that we would be flying with the "aye- 
rabs" to lordan. I admit it was somewhat 
comfoning that I wfliild be (lying for over 
15 hours with my own kind, but still, it 
was a big change. 

Upon arrival in Jordan, I learned that 
the bridge from lordan to Palestine is 
controlled by Israel.,, did we not travel to 
Jordan to avoid the Israeli government? 
Well, there we were, in a place basically 
the same as the Ben Gurion airport in 
Tel Aviv, Israel, being messed with as 



always. It took ever&gt;'onc else a total of 
five minutes or less to get through the 
border. For my family and me, however, It 
took about an hour. See, my passport has 
stamps in it that show that I was suppose 
to be deported the last time I came lo the 
Middle East, which basically makes mc 
exceptionally suspicious. 

But in the end, we got through i,vilh 
some waiting and a ton of extra taxes just 
to enter, and then leave, the country. I was 
not happy, though, and my family decided 
that it was probably easier to simply lly 
into Israel. 



Meet and Greek 

Black Greeks Encourage Students to Join 



By Hana Al Hawash 



Last Wednesday, a luncheon took place called 
"Meet and Greek," which was sponsored by the 
Black Greek Letter Organization; this informational 
meeting was open to all who wished to attend. 

"Not many people know what Black Greek Letter 
Organizations are. ' Christopher Douse, the director 
of multicultural serx-ices, explains. 

"IPFW has a rich history of African American 
students participating in these organizations from 
our campus, and as the campus has started to explore 
bringing Greek letter organizations back to campus, 
we wanted to provide a venue for students to learn 
what Black Grctk Letter Organizations are truly 
about: academic achievement and giving back to the 
community' through serv'ice," said Douse. 

The first "Black Greek," Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternitj', 
was founded at Cornell University in Ithaca. NY on 
December 4, 1906. According to the official website, 
the goal of this group was simple: "...to stimulate 
the ambition of its members; to prepare them for 
the greatest usefulness in the cause of humanity, 
freedom and dignity of the individual; to encourage 
thehighestandnoblest form of manhood..." 



After this group was formed, it was just two 
years later that a group of black women at Howard 
University on January 15, 190B. This group. Alpha 
Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.. is about women uniting 
lo help one another to become citizens of higher 
standing and scholastic achievement, as well as 
volunteer and form bonds to fall back on. 

These organizations, however, are not solely 
represented by black individuals. Plent&gt;' of other races 
have joined Black Greeks, even former President Bill 
Clinton joined a fraternity. Even Secretary of Stale, 
Hillary Clinton, almost joined, but withdrew her 
application when she learned that she would only be 
able to join AKA, the first formed sorority. Many other 
famous people have joined Black Greeks such as 
Aretha Franklin, Maya Angelou and Michael Jordan, 
to name a few. 

Douse highly suggests that all students consider 
joining sororities and fraternities, as he believes that 
ihey aid in building character and a future. 

"Being a member of one myself, |l recognized! 
how my organization assisted in my growth and 
development," said Douse. 

For more information on how Black Greeks 
and how you can join one, contact the Office 
of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs located in Walb 
Student Union at 260-4B1-6608, or just stop by room 
118 on die first floor. 




Fort Wayne: Protect Local Transgender Individuals 



ByAzariah Southworth 



This past year, we saw how the economy took 
a toll on many American families and individuals 
financially. Literally millions of Americans lost their 
jt)bs. Wesawa major jump in homes being foreclosed. 
It seemed as though, those of us who had a job, went 
to work with a renewed sense of gratefulness for what 
he have. 

Though countless sdll struggle to get back on their 
feet today, we are nowable to see that the worst is over. 
Because we have experienced that fear of losing our 
jobs, and for some actually having that fear become 
reality, I think it's safe to say, we wouldn't want anyone 
to lose their jobs in good or bad economic times, 
especially not because of who they are. 

No person should be denied or fired from their 
job because of their race, religion, sex, disability, 
sexual orientation or gender identity. Yes... I said it... 
OR "gender identity." What does that mean? Gender 
identity is someone's inner sense of being male or 
female. You could biologicaUy be a female but inside 
you know that your genitalia does not match the 
gender you idenrif&gt;' with. In short, gender is defined 
by what's in-between your ears not your legs. 

Transgender folk are some of the most 
discriminated against class of people in our society. 
l.yh.en 1 lyas in Los AogeJW- liljiiiastSlU.aiIfio4eii. 



the Transgender Day of Remembrance. At the end of 
the event we read the names of the 900+ transgender 
individuals who were murdered in 2008 alone. It was 
heartbreaking to say the least. That night I took time 
lo remember Stephanie who visited my church when 
I was 7-years-old. After being rejected by my church, 
shewent home that night, wheresomeone was waiting 
for her, they tied Stephanie to her bed and killed her. 
Transgender people face rejection everywhere they 
go. Wliether it be a trip to the local grocery store, 
while at school, at their job, and unfortunately even 
at church. It is because of Stephanie, and other 
transgender people I call my friends, why I believe it 
is urgent we love and protect them. 

This week Fort Wayne's City Council began 
discussions on whether they will update the- local 
human rights ordinance lo include "gender identity." 
By including gender identity in the ordinance, 
transgender people will gain protections in the 
workplace. Not only that, but they would no longer 
be allowed to be denied public housing. Yes, all of this 
does happen. Our transgender brothers and sisters 
have the right not to be discriminated against when 
trying to obtain a job or place to live. 

I'm not asking you to affirm transgender people, 
although I think we all should. I am simply asking you 
to understand the privilege you obtain. Most of you 
don't havetoworryaboutbeingdiscriminated against 
for being who you are. I am asking you to afford the 
.jKP16.BOB)-e6e and protections to your transgender 



brothers and sisters. These prii^teges and protections 
can be given by simply including "gender identity " in 
FortWajTie's human rights ordinance. 

Whenever I see injustice in a movie I always 
envision how 1 would have stood on the side of 
justice and fought for those were being wronged 
and oppressed. Today, there is an injustice against 
transgender people. I urge you to stand on the side 
of justice and contact your city council members 
and let them know Fon Wayne's cunent and future 
transgender people are equal citizens, who pay equal 
taxes, and deserve equal protections under the law. 




February 10, 2010 . Movies . Music . Theatre . 



Page 6-7 




Artist: Sound the Ciiy 
Album: In This Moment 
Label: Unsigned 
Release Date: February 2, 2010 
Sounds Like: Fall Out Boy, but 
worse. 

Rating: 0.1/5 

From the get go, this band 
sounds like a cheap Fail Out Boy rip- 
off. This is not to say that Fall Out Boy 
is a good band by any means, however 
to rip ihcm off... cheaply, at that, is a 
new feat of terrible. 

The music on this EP is 
slightly heavier but with worse lyrics 
than FOB. Their poppy, trite guitars 
and torturously dragged out lyrics 



and enunciation are enough to make 
one want to personally extract their 
eardrums from their head. 

By the third track, entided 
"Scene U Around", any listener in their 
right mind would turn this album off. 
Not only does the title completely 
annihilate the song for the listener, but 
it also lets the listener know that the 
band doesn't take their band seriously 
at all. 

Unfortunately, I didn't have it 
in my heart to give this band a zero 
because 1 know that, somewhere in the 
depths of music consumers, there will 
be some people who find this good and 
find some sort of musical value in this 
muddy trench of an album. 



2'MiaomOBIN'S 
2W3IV3;REVIEWS 




Anist: The Heligoals 
Album: Goodness Gracious 
Label: Greyday Productions 
Release Date: lanuary 26, 2010 
, bounds Like: A less drunk 
CSinor Oberst of Bright Eyes with a 
lot of random sound effects. 
Bating: 2.5/5 

We begin with a track entitled 
"A Guide to the Outdoors" which 
commences with the sound of cricket 
noises. The instrumentation gets 
heavy but maintains a smooth quality. 
It isn't overly complicated, nor boring, 
but those things considered, it still 
seems to be missing something that 
the listener can't quite pinpoint. 

At times it almost seems as if they 
are searching for an Appleseed Cast 



type of quality but never quite get to 
the point of achieving that full-bodied 
sound. 

Oddly enough, the sound effects 
don'i stop. The listener would think 
that on occasion they are fine; on an 
introductory track it is acceptable. 
They just don't seem to get the point 
though. Out of the ten tracks on the 
album, half of them contain out of 
character sound effects. 

Sound effects aside, the 
instrumentation on the album isn't 
entirely bad and some of the songs are 
worthwhile. When the vocalist isn't 
trying to be Bright Eyes, the album 
is tolerable, upbeat, and serves its 
purpose for a shallow listen but doesn't 
traverse much deeper than a paper 
plate. 




By Holly Gallaway 

gj||»uOieiIudtnts.(pfw.cdu 

itodwif Hoft^ VVf+Vior Slid wViili.- t'Slkin^ -abouf 
spending "S H«r in ~fVt'ail'3nd pfior to &lt;jn^&lt;x]ng 
colltgt* Hirtr gfodo^ting Ifom Conoordi'S 
LutVKJ^Sn ^iigVi 5cViooI, Wf+Vior (■rtUiJi.d to 
"IK^ailand Jor &lt;s hca^ u\\(x-(^^\]&lt;^\mmtxZiLd\\&lt;X!.iJS 
in f Vii- cultur-t, tSnd cwtoim and l\\icd witVi 4 ^lost 
familH uVii(^«ttaiding scViool. OVitn sViti'd'tJrtltd 
to t^K-^tfltcs flnd tx\follcd in ITPFW, sV|i.btg&lt;sn 
sttid-ling vnosic. IVirougVioot \ilgVi scVioo), VVrtViinr 
wtis in orc^K-stra "Snd cVioK iaot in collt^ sVk. 
T-xviostfoititdyinitislo m -an otttsldc-CWd. 

?(ysic in (3ti outsidt. fi-tld is twsctlM uVi&lt;it it 
sounds (ikt. V^rtViuf is abl-c to cVioosi- wVrat 
tiiJd sVi-c^ Cfln appM Vitr knoultdgt- of miosic to. 
VVlto' yisitinglH-atl^nd, ftrtViur f-dumt/i fo fttft 
O'S'lni-flnd discouwid tVi&lt;st s\K-"^-t^tntialH, 
« sVit- said, -scting &lt;is On antViropolo^isf. So. 
wVitn \\]t- tioK- dmc^ to cVioo^t. \\&lt;jr outside- 
SkJd sV|t.cViost^4 combination of flntViropologM 
■and folklortc Dv: "^Viard ^iAkr and Ur "UbVin 
?tirtont art- Viclping VVrtViur put to^d-Vier Vitr 
dc^fCCt V^rtViur is looking into possibh following 
In T&gt;i: ?tiyitons tootstifs -Slid applying \tcc music. 
digTiLi. to i.tVinomoSiCoIog'^. FtVinomosicologH is 
t\ii-stod^ of music •ir\(! dance in Cultural contt*d"S 
in botVilocsl &lt;and global settings. WVien asked 



uVrif cultortl iftA sVie would like to 
on. WrtViur mentiontd tVi-sf. OS sVii 
■3 partial knowledge of 5outVie4st \ 
sVie. would consider retorviing tViei 
VioweveiT wants to return to Europe 
^erman'^ in WgVi scViool as part oi 
language progosm). ftrt^iurs also 
working as a professor in tViefufur 
in a museum. 5Vie ills an'^w^lere 
•tedrs on to complete Vier degv 
been focusing on taLmg at least si: 
semestei: ft tew of tlie classes in 
timt. commitvnents, 4nd tVieotVier 
i'mi- sVie-fMMt affentl-^ni),-sf&gt;ofld tir 
studying. 

^s for outsidi^wofk, ftrtViur ti 
botVi tVirougVi 5weet/jater 5oond ■ 
5Vie performs at \jarious open mic 
town, including fi^d VlntVionMS an 
S^ie- "Slso works witii tVie. otode 
Board, VKJpiig book tlie- bands tVi 
campus ewents. ftside from ope 
VVrt^iur perforois sViows frequent 
asked Viow often eac^ montVi, sVi 
Xt uaries ono montVi, X could 
eyern weekend tVie ntJtt montV], 
Viaue an-^. AJo matter wViat z\\o &lt; 
wit^i Vier careei; ^opeftrtVior knc 
for sure sVie- wants to keep planing 



Bontrager Makes Direct 



By Veronica Gabet 

qabtl-HitHttiiyOgmal I . com 



IPFW is opening its spring line up with an all student production 
of Stop Kiss by Diana Son. This is the first in a series of provocative 
and humorous plays this season. This production also happens 
to be the directorial debut of lanei E. Bontrager an IPFW theatre 
major with an emphasis in directing. While this is her first outing 
as a director, she isn't new to the area's theatre scene. She has taken 
on various roles behind the scenes where she has tackled lights, 
make-up. and stage management. Bontrager is enthusiastic in this 
newunderiakingand isconfident in the cast and crew that she has 
assembled, regardless of their experience. 

It is her vision for Slop Kiss to create a dynamic and thought 
provoking theatre experience thai make^ theweyye/.ask. ."how far^ 



would they be willing to go f 
Stop Kiss was the play she w 
and could not stop crying. / 
gives her "the opportunity 
interpretation of the misco 
make assumptions about ea 
She also chose to i 
subject matter and its abilir 
Bontrager is anxious but oj 
motivation will make the tr 
cast features Stephanie Loci 
life's obstacles in the road, ai 
a friend who isnew in town./ 
plays Sara's estranged boyfir 
Callie's friend and colleag 
whims of the Magic Eight-l 
roles, liy.Hathryn Wimer as 1 




Page 6-7 




&lt;s( «c-W sVit, would likcfo concwifnafc 
' mcnhonai IVi-af, 4s sVk^ ■alrt^d^ Vi&lt;is 
lowlij^^coC 5oufhossf Iftsi'Sn culW-t, 
consickji' rtftjmin3 IVicr-t- 5\it Also, 
■4rits fo r-tAvm to Furopo(sVit.wt*i+ lo 
in WgVi scViool "SS part of IVii^ fortign 
'rogrtYn). HrrViurs also covTSidurin^ 
&lt;S professor i&lt;i tht-fu+uri-or p£jr\iaps 
um. 5Vit- Viis &lt;3nHuVi&lt;jr-t, froTii {\\f&lt;^ 
to CDTupId--^ \itr {k^ftjc, so sViti 
sing OTi Hkm^ af iwsf sist. classes ptr 

ft fCJJ of tVlt.Cl&lt;SSStS inviolui- fc&gt;£ikl4 

nitmtnts, and tVi^^ otVi-trs ari^Llissts 
lust af+trcl.-itntf.^SIHJnd ti'mt-od-sidt.or 

ootsidt. work, V\r+Viur \-LaO(\-iJ. piflvio. 
j^Vi 5wMiwflTtjr Sound 4nd priU'St-dJ'^. 
rms &lt;st uarious open mc nig^iU around 
iding ?t3d V^nr\^on'^s and "I^c B-oan. 

uorki wifVi liit-^tudcnf Wdiviifits 
Jpin^ book l\K bands +\i«t pW-l during 
tjnh. ftsidc from optn mic nigVifs, 
yforms sViows frtjQuwitlH. 3u-|- wVitn 
&gt; offtn WcVi vnonlV], sVit- rtipondtd, 
ont- monfVi, X Lould Viait«, 4 i\iou 
JitJnd, fVit' ntJci mon+V), X coold nof 

^o Tiiaftcr wVial sVit-Oids up doing 
-•ii^-W Hoj^O ftri\iur knows one iViing 
nc-wanfs lo kttp pMMinq musiL. 



Movies 

Opening this Week 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians: TTie Lightning 
(widei niier(2010l 




Directorial Debut With Stop Kiss 



loiild they be willing to go for the one they loved?' Bontragcr knew 
top Kiss WEis the play she wanted to direct after she read the script 
nd could not stop crying. According to Bontrager, this production 
ives her "the opponunity to play with self-expression and her 
iterpretation of the misconceptions and judgment when people 
lake assumptions about each other." 

She also chose lo direct Slop Kiss because of the play's 
ubject matter and its abihty to elicit a reaction from the audience, 
lonlrager is an&gt;iious but opdmistic to see how her direction and 
notivation will make the transition from actor to audience. The 
ast features Stephanie Lochbihier as Callie, who swerves to avoid 
fe's obstacles in the road, and Elizabeth Burris as Sara, the friend of 
friend who is new in town j\lso appearing arc Adam Hamilton, who 
ilays Sara's estranged boyfriend Peter, and (on Kasunic as George, 
^lie's Friend and colleague ivith benefits — depending on tne 
^hims of the Magic Eight-Ball. The cast also features supporting 
qles,lu',Kathryn Wimer as Mrs. Winsley, Jacob Stone as Det. Cole, 



and June Rambo as the Nurse. 

Callie thinks there is something wrong with her and George 
because neither one of them can understand what would make 
Sara want to take a teaching position in the Bronx. George thinks 
something is wrong with the fact that he knows next to nothing 
about Sara, but she is suddenly Callie's new best friend. Sara can't 
understand how in this day and age people would want to get 
married and Peter can'l understand how Sara could run off lo New 
York with an upcoming wedding to plan. 

Stop Kiss is an original New York Production by The New York 
Shakespeare Festival's George C. Wolfe. This play was written with 
support from Playwrights Horizons made possible in pan by hjnds 
granted to the author through a program sponsored by Amblin 
Entertainment, Inc. "This show is not for younger viewers, because 
of the adult subject matter and content," warns Bontrager. SiopKiss 
runs February 12 and 13 at 8 p.m. in the Kenler Studio Theatre. 
Tickets are S5 or free to IPFW students with a school ID. 



Valentine's Day (2010) 
(wde) 




STUDENT ISSUES 



p. 8 



nig fit mii Wrong 
on Valentine's Day opfd 



By Kelly McLendon 

mdendon VcllvegrvilUoni 



Year after year, stores sell those gigantic 
leddy bears with "I Love You" emblazoned 
across their chests for VaJeniine's Day. 
People actually go out and buy them for 
the person they think they love. Because 
nothing announces your love belter than 
a life-size stuffed animal, right? This 
couldn't be further from the truth. Look at 
it this way, if you arc old enough lo be in a 
relationship, you are probably too old for 
stuffed toys. 

Then there is the whole dozen red 
roses tradition. Women don't really want 
flowers; they just want them delivered to 
where they work so the other people can 
see and get jealous. When the deliveryman 
walks through the door with a bouquet 
and a cute little note attached, all of the 
women in the office suddenly think, "Wow! 
Her boyfriend really cares about her." The 
status symbolism is uncanny. 

Hearl-shaped chocolate boxes are 
up next. Of course, if there is a holiday 
in the United States, there must be some 
kind of food involved. Boxes of chocolates 
are made for the guy who forgets about 
Valentine's Day until it is almost too late. 
They are conveniently found in most 
grocery stores during this time at the ends 
of ihe aisles. Those candy heans with the 



sappy messages fall into this category, loo. 
With messages like "UR Kind' and "So 
Fine' printed on ihem, tliey aren't good for 
anything more than a joke. 

The fancy dinner rounds out the 
Valentine "vvrongs." Once again, people 
are trying to use food lo convey care and 
love. But this year, a Bloomberg rfeport 
says people might be lowering their 
usual spending. "While Ihe standbys of 
flowers, candy and cards are still popular, 
the gifts are falling on die practical side 
this year. Fewer people will splurge on 
an evening oul: 35.6%, compared lo 47% 
last year,'" according to financial website 
DailyFinance. 

But the market for buying gifts won't 
completely die down because of ihe rough 
economy. 

"Valeniine's Day shoppers plan lo 
spend S103 on gifts on average, up only 50 
cents from last year's level," DailyFinance 
reports. 

Even though there are many "wrongs" 
on the holiday, there are also many 
fascinating 'rights.' 

"The National Retail Federation expects 
consumers will spend S367 million on 
their pets for the holiday," according to 
ABC News. 

Your pets can't provide you with gifts 
in return, but they can give you love and 
attention, which is a whole lot more than a 
box of chocolates will. 



It's FAFSA time 



By Holly Eggelston under-represenied in the Indiana 

(ggfhmoiiaiiudintiiptniKfu collegiatc communiiy. 

The meeting ivill be held in 

Ihe lobby of Neff Hall at 2:00 PM 

The March 10 deadline for on Sunday the 21st. There will be 

those complicated FAFSA forms trained linancial aid professionals 

is quickly approaching. Luckily, available lo answer questions on 

financial aid professionals will be finding aid but the primary focus 

on hand February 21sl at IPFW lo ofthemeetingwillhcio help filling 

help individuals from the com- oul the F/\FSA online. It is impor- 

munity decipher the forms and tantio meet the March 10 deadline 

gel them in on lime. According to because it allows families to qual- 

Gerald Curd from [PFW's finan- if&gt;' for federal grants, loans and 



cial aid office. 

"The event is 

mostly geared 

towards first - 

generation 

college bound 

seniors and 

students from 

lower income 

families." He adds "We don't lurn 

individuals away who are wanting 

assistance ivith FAFSA so college 

students could come thai day"'. 



"It is important to meet the 

March 10 deadline because it 

allows families to qualify for 

federal grants, loans, 

and scholarships." 



scholarships. 
Students will 
also have the 
opportunity 
at the meet- 
ing to qual- 
ify to win a 
$1000 schol- 
arship offered 
by LearnMore Indiana and CCS. 

College Goal Sunday will be 
taking place at many different lo- 
cations across the state of Indiana 



The event is called College Goal on Sunday The program encour- 
Sunday (CGS) and is hosted by the ages students lo be accompanied 



Indiana Student Financial Aid As- 
sociation (ISFAA). College Goal 
Sunday is in its 21sl year and has 
helped over 75.000 families get 
iheir forms turned in before the 
deadline. Currently, they are ai- 



by parents and for everyone to 
bring their tax information from 
2009. Spanish interpreters will be 
available to help with language 
barriers in counseling sessions. 
More information about College 



tempting to expand their efforts to Goal Sunday and the opporluni- 
promote aid within minority com- lies it offers can be fountl at Col- 
munides and other groups IhaE are legegoalsunday.org. 



Somewhere between the words 

"week old" and "pizza" you begin to 

wonder, "Do I have health insurance?" 



INTRODUCING 

Indigo Individual™ Health Insurance. 

Illness (moldy pizzo-reloted or otherwise) doesn't care whettier or not you hawe 
heolth insurance. Ttiafs wtiy PHP is introducing Indigo Individual. It provides ttie 
essential benefits of group heaWh insuronce lo college students like yourself. 
So even if you're in school you con hove insurance coverage in case of illness or 
injury. To find out more, coll us at 800-982-6257 or visit us online at ptipnl-com 
ond click on the Indigo link. Because everyone deserves great health insurance. 



&lt;!iP 
PHP 

llie insurunce your health deserves. 
600-962-6257 www.phpni.com 




Photo by Lucas Carter o( Coach Dane Fife 



Centenary shoots hot. Dons fall in final seconds 



By Logan Pea 

peallOl ejiudentj ipFw «Ii 



Their record may not show it, but 
on Saturday afiemoon Centenary Col- 
lege (8-16, 3-10) proved that on any 
given day, any team can beat anyone. 
The Men's basket- 



game, and 50% from beyond the arc. In 
tlie first half alone they knocked doivn 
eight three-pointers. IPFW got big 
performances by Zach Plackemeir and 
Frank Gaines who both put up fifteen 
points for the squad, and Ben Botts 
added twelve. 

Tlianks to a big 3-ball from Ben 
Botts with six sec- 



ball team fell Sat- 
urday afternoon 
to Centenary Col- 
lege in ftont of a 

large crowd at the 
Memorial Coli- 
seum, Whatever 

the Gents' had for breakfast/ lunch or 
whatever you want to call it, it worked. 



"IPFW got big performances 

by Zach Plackemeier and 
Frank Gaines, who both put up 
fifteen points for the squad." 



onds 

the first half, the 
Dons found them- 
selves down eight 
points going into 
the break. With 
seven minutes to 
in the half, it was Ben Botts again 
ivith IPFW down three, who hit a big 



Centenary shot 60% for the entire three pointer to tie the game. It was a 



brand new ball game, and that's usually 
the point where the Dons turn up the 
heat. Unfortunately for IPFW though, 
they never led. IPFW never let the lead 
extend past seven, and had It cut to as 
much as just one point with sbcteen sec- j 
ond to go, but taking the lead was just 
something that Centenary was bound 
and determined not to let happen. Off 
a purposely missed free throw by Zach 
Plackemeir, IPFW's usual hero, Nick 
Daniels missed a ten foot jump to send 
the game to overtime as time expired, 
and IPFW lost the game 80-78. The loss 
dropped IPFW lo 11-12 overall, and to ' 
6-7 in the Summit League. The Dons I 
are back in action Thursday, February 

II as they travel to the University of | _ 

Kansas-Missouri City for an 8:05 tip-off. Photo by Lucas Carter of tieshman frank Gaines 





Volleydons drop heartbreaker 

Shank carries team in loss witli season high with 35 kills 

8y Monica Gerdeman Dons showed a weakness in serving up seven service 

m_9«ijenianjoojii*hotmait.tom errors and Only completing five successful blocks on 

the evening. 

Sophomore Dan Mader offered 58 sets leading the 
team witJi 377 total assists on the season. 

Other season leaders include Shank with 313 kills, 

Kook with 29 blocks, Shaun Dryden with lOZ digs. 

and Shank with serving a 30 per- 

"The team played with so much ""' ^ci^"e percentage 

Mt . . .. J 1.1. 1. IPFW will meet Grand C:anyon 

effort and emotion and although university for a face to face con- 

wedidn't win, I feel as a team 



direction .' 



Photo by Lucas Carter I LucaiCarterPhotography-cc 



Men's Volleyball: Sophomore Oan Mader goes 
up for a block against 



The first definition of volleyball in the dictionary 
reads: a game for two teams in which the object is to 
keep a large ball in motion, from side to side over a 
high net, by striking it virith 
the hands before it touches 
the ground, but add a rival 
team, a bag of popcorn and a 
few fans and you've got your- 
self a ball game. 

The Volleydons hosted a 
five set heari-breaker against 
the Lewis Flyers of Rome- 
oville, IL last Friday night. 
(26-30, 30-26. 31-29, 24-30. 13-15.) 

"The team played with so much effort and emo- 
tion and although we didn't win, I feel as a team, we're 
taking a step in the right direction." said the injured 
freshman Elon Fyfield. 

Fyficld was unable to play in the matchup because 
of a hurt shoulder. He hopes to be back in action as 
soon as he can play without pain. 

Darrj'l Shank led the way with a season high of 35 
kills on the evening, as the senior Oli Kook came next 
knocking 15 facials over the net. Between die two, 
they kept the crowd hoping all night as slam after 
slam hit the floor. 

"We played good volleyball and tried some new 
strategies. The loss hurts, but is another step to get 
where we want to be at the end of the season," said 
Kook. 

Although 7 1 IPFW kills hit an impressive hi^, the 



ference matchup at Gates Sports 
we're taking a step in the right Center Friday 12 at 7p.m. and Sat- 
j.__^.^_ „ urday 13alsoat7. 

"And as far as up and coming 
games, we are still a very young 
team with 6-7 starters being un- 
derclassmen. We are learning together and becoming 
a much stronger TEAM," finished Fyfield. 





-^*V9 


Upcoming Schedule *" 


02/19/10 


at Saint Francis 7:00 p.m. 


02/20/10 


at Penn State 7;00 p.m. 


02/25/10 


at Ball State 7:30 p.m. 


03/05/10 


vs. Cardinal Stritch 7:00 p.m. 


03/06/10 


vs. Ohio State * 7:00 p.m. 


03/12/10 


at Puerto Rico TBA 


03/13/10 


at Puerto Rico TBA 


03/19/10 


at Rutgers-Newark 7:00 p.m. 


03/20/10 


at George Mason 7:00 p.m. 


03/26/10 


at Carthage 7:00 p.m, 



February 10,2010 



SPORTS 



p. 10 



The Fish Picks 


23-23) 1/5". (28-18) Pea Predictions 


10 Sabres- Hold on late for the W 


Sharks at Sabres 


Sharks- San Jose very underrated 10 


9 Duke- Wins the rivalry 


Duke al North Carolina 


Duke- UNC needs to get It together 9 


8 UConn- Continues to win 


UConn at Oklahoma (Ladies) 


UConn- The streak goes on 8 


7 Suns- They are on fire 


Blazere at Suns 


Blazers- Portland turning It on 7 


6 Pitt- Big East home teams win 


West Virginia at Pittsburgh 


West Virginia- Step up for big one 6 


5 Sophomores- Better weapons 


Rookies vs. Sophomores 


Sophomores- Rookies are Rookies 5 


4 Cavs- They are on a roll 


^m Magic at Cavliers 
^* Tennessee at Kentucky 


Cavs- Best home team in basketball 4 


3 Tenn- Upset as Wall falls 


Kentucky- Wildcats get big win 3 


2 East- LeBron, Howard, Wade 


East »s. West ' 


West- Fun game, lots of scoring 2 


1 Kahne- Upset victory at 500 


Daytona 500 


Martin- Starts first, finishes first 1 


By Lucas Fisher / lucoruco8@com«st.nBt 


More picks at ipfwcommunicator.org 


By Logan Pea 1 pcjllOiestuden1s.lplw.edu 


March Madness is coming up, and we are challenging you! Stay tuned for more information. 



IPFW to the world 

Yuka Kobayashi 



(WHENWAS^Eii^sSffiMEl^ 



ifj^mmm 




Photo by lucat Can«i . 



By Oli Kook 

al ivE rl aokOg mail.tom 

Yuka Kobayashi is an TPFW junior 
on the women's tennis team with a 
major in biology. Yuka came to IPFW 
all the way From lapan. Her hometown 
is Shimonoseki which is in the south 
oF Japan. Japan's capital is Tokyo, the 
biggest city in the world. Japan has a 
population of 127,530,000. "1 decided 
to come to IPFW because the school 
has a great academic program and also 
a good tennis program. Our team won 
the regular season last season and we 
almost got to go to the NCAA tourna- 
ment," so Yuka. She loves to travel with 



the team to see many diricrent plaLi". 
in the United Slates. 

According to Yuka, there are marn 
cultural differences between Japan and 
the United States. Obviously the food is 
a lot different: especially the size of the 
drinks they sell at fast food restaurants. 
"The largest drink in Japan equals a size 
medium here in the US," says Yuka with 
a smile on her face. Everything seems 
to be bigger here in America: the cars, 
the roads, stores, and of course food. 

Yuka also noted the differences in 
holidays. "People in the US are craz^' 
about Christmas." Apparently, putting 
up Christmas lights is not a common 
thing in (apan. 

"There are so many good things 
about being here, but sometimes I re- 
ally miss my family and my friends. 
And I miss seeing the ocean a lot." Her 
first winter in Fort Wayne was a great 
new experience because she has never 
seen that much snow before in her life 
Now she really misses the weather from 
back home. 

'Hilking about cultural differences. 
Yuka laughs, admitdng she didn't know 
some people dye their hair blond, "I 
thought everyone that has blond hair 
was naturally blond," so Yuka. 

In the annual Summit League pre- 
season poll, the IPFW women's tennis 
team has been voted first to ivin the 
conference in 2010. 

Like many of her teammates, Ko- 
bayashi received second team all-con- 
ference accolades for a fine sophomore 
season last year and is now ready for 
this upcoming season to finally make 
the step to the NCAA tournament. 






Classic Fajitas 

Double Order $13.49 
(It's enough for two!) 
Single Order $7.99 

Top Shelf or 

Caribbean Margarita' 

10 oz. Rita $2.99 

16 oz. Rita $4.99 




Fajita 'lllta 
MaiMlay 



Fort Wayne 

317 E. Collsseum Blvd. 
260.471.2979 
www.chllls.com 



Ask us for more 
Information) 



)o at iBOBt 21 yoa/B o 



February 10,2010 



SPORTS 



p. 11 



"Pink Out" brings landsiide victory 

IPFW women's basketball team destroys Centenary College 68-28 



By Logan Pea 

pcjiiai Allude nil ipfw eifu 

The students were pink, the fans 
were pink, the sneakers were pink, and 
so were the faces of Centenary Col- 
lege's women's basketball learn as they 
walked out of the Memorial Coliseum 
Saturday afternoon after an embarrass- 
ing 6B-28 loss to IPBV. The women's 
basketball 



put an absolute 
pounding on Cen- 
tenary College, 
but the reason 
behind the game 
was even bigger. 
The first 200 stu- 
dents were given free pink l-shirjs, and 
the rest of the fans were encouraged to 
wear pink as every ticket sold had $1 
donated la Ihe Vera Bradley Founda- 
tion. 

The win on Saturday was still not 
even the biggest margin of victory for 
the Dons this season. The Dons de- 



Defense is what led the Dons 

to victory Saturday as they 

held Centenary to just nine 

first half points." 



nearly perfect by IPE^. Scoring was 
spread out very well and the Dons 
found three players in double figures. 
Chelsey Jackson nelted eleven, Anne 
Bosse contributed with twelve, and 
Stephanie Roasdo paced the game with 
fourteen points. Not only did Rosadn 
net a game high fourteen points, she 
pulled down ten rebounds to secure a 
double-double. With a victory as large 
one might 



think the "3 Ball' 

was chucked up 

possession after 

possession. Not 

Saturday IPFW 

got most of their 

scoring off of Cen- 
tenary turnovers.. Defense is what led 
the Dons to victory Saturday as they 
held Centenary to just nine first half 
points. As always, the women hit their 
free throws (20-27) and the game was 
neverclose, IPFW will hit the road this 
weekend as they travel all the way to 
Cedar City, Utah for a big time confcr- 

feated Indiana Tech 92-35 over the encc matchup against Southern Utah Women's Basketball: Juniors Jordan Zuppe and Sarah Haluska against 
holiday break. The game was played at 7 pm. Centenary College in their victory win of 68 - 28. 




Photo by Lucas Carter / lucasCanerPholography.cc 



60 Second Sports Report 

Super Bowl XLIV Special Edition 



On February 7, 2010, the India- 
napolis Colts and New Orleans Saints 
battled for Super Bowl XLIV This was 
the Colts second trip to the Super Bowl 
in Miami in four seasons and it was the 
Saints first trip to a Super Bowl in their 
history. Let's get to the game. 

The game started out with the new- 
est Hall of Famers coming onto the 
field and one of the inductees Emmitt 
Smith flipping the coin. 
The Saints won the toss 
and elected to receive. 
The Colts defensive ?nd 
Dwight Freeney started 
the game. On the Saints 
opening drive they went 
three and out only gain- 
ing eight yards. The 
Colts completed their 
first play ivitha fifteen yard pass to 
Dallas Clark. They ended their opening 
drive with a thirty eight yard field goal 
by Matt Stover. The Saints converted a 
first down on their second drive with 
a pass to Reggie Bush. After another 
failed drive by die Saints late in the 
quarter they had to punt, they pinned 
the Colts down at the four yard line. 
Peyton Manning drove the Colts down 
the field throwing a nineteen yard pass 
to Pierre Garcon (who is from Haiti) 
with thirty six seconds to go. The score 
at the end ofthequarterwas 10-0 Colls. 

In the second quarter the game 
came to a standstill. Witli nine and a 
half minutes remaining the Saints fi- 
nally got on the board with a forty sLx 
yard field goal by Garrett Hartley. Late 
in the half the Colts stopped the Saints 
at the goal line causing a turnover on 
downs. It was a risky call by coach Sean 
Payton that didn't work out. The Saints 
then forced the Colts to punt with a 
minute and a half to go. Drew Brees 




lead the team to field goal range. Hart- 
ley made a forty four yard field goal lo 
end the first half. The score at halfiime 
was 10-6 Colts. 

The Saints started out the second 
half with an onside kick and recov- 
ered it. Brees lead the team doivn the 
field lo take the lead throwing a sixteen 
yard pass to Pierre Thomas. The Colls 
struck right back with a four yard run 
by Joseph Addai. On the following drive 
Hartley connected with another field 
goal this time from forty seven yards. 
The score at the end of 
the third quarter was 
17-I6Colts. 

In the fourth quar- 
ter the Colls missed a 
golden opportunity as 
Stover missed a fifty 
one yard field goal. On 
the Saints next drive 
Brees threw another 
touchdoivn pass this time to leremy 
Shockey. This put the Saints up by five 
so they went for a two point conver- 
sion. Brees passed it to Lance Moore 
and it was ruled incomplete. The Saints 
decided to challenge the ruling and it 
was overturned. With the Colts now 
down by seven Manning tried to lead 
die team down the field but Tracy Por- 
ter had another idea, he intercepted a 
pass intended for Reggie Wayne and 
look it to the house putting the game 
all but away with three minutes to go. 
The Colts tried to come back and made 
it into the red zone but turned it over 
on downs. Drew Brees came out onto 
the field lo kneel the ball and the game 
was over. The Saints won Super Boivl 
XLIV 31-17. Brees was named Super 
Bowl MVP 

It was a great game to watch for any 
fan. On Monday it was announced that 
SuperBowlXLlVbroke the all lime his- 
tory mark in the TV ratings beating the 
"M'A'S'H" finale with over 106 million 











'^^Con 


im 


unlcator 






n iJUUMLdiiuM ui inuidno-r 


urdue Student Newspapers, Inc. 






Editorial Staff 




Aaron Greene 




IPSNInc: 




Editor-in-Chief 




Walb Union Suite 215 
2101 Coliseum Blvd. East 
Fort Wayne, IN 46805 




Kelly McLendon 








Managing Editor 




Newsroom / Editor 

(260)481-6584 

contact®ipfwcommunicaior.org 


- 


Neal Quandt 








Copy Editor 




Advertising 

(260)481-6583 

adsSipfwcommuDfcatororQ 




Craig Lloyd 








A&amp;E Editor 




Publisher 
(260)481-6585 




Peter Schnellenberger 


pubrshef^ipfwcommunicatororg 




Politics &amp; Money 




OHiaal Web site 

http://www ipfwcommunicatorotg 




Monica Gerdemar 




Do you have a story idea? 




Sports Editor 




tell us at storieseipfwcommunicalof org 




Kassi Galbreath 
Layout Designer 

Lucas Carter 
Photography 








r 


Editorial Policy 1 




EJflanjll* 






Editor 

Alisha Humbert 


daianaa 






bodt^Aaiur 


nn B u)telr iht Dpbiuin uf lu ainlw 




wid d™ uandBift'iiHlar m Uifc W jpplicaWt). iHioi run mccUnii Ihoe 




Ad Manager 


"I^^mZ 


dofB nude tin e-nua vrfl be wrtftrf b» leKphoru.- « m pmon. 


»■ 




Addrsaan 






Matt McClure 


SuboiMC 
Ok oJum 


ul biBnl ot n&gt;e CKmmunlouoi rwrm Uio ntfu id tdn lU 




Publisher 










libcknnbrih 







February 10, 2010 



U.S. CELLULAR 



SCARIER 



SNAKES, 

SPIDEB-S 



.nearly ham'^e^''^ 




r • ^AieveinsomethiT 



omethinghetter 




Fne [Dcandagdahn based on cmtHned vok&amp; Tot ami F% ungBlytyiikal U^ Cdfii^ 



