Library Furniture High Chlamydia Rate IPFW to the World 

Page 2 Page 3 Page 1 1 



ipfwcommunicator.org 

Struggling 
to Survive 



By Kristan Mensch 
Page. 9 



How education 

takes a back 

seat to poverty 




Everyone on campus has probably seen it at least once: someone lite rally turning their pockets inside-out to find money forfood. Or maybe it was the 
scrounge for change to fill the metered parking spots. Possibly this person is the friend, sibling, person in a class group, or near graduate dropping 
outofschool because they can no longer afford to stay. 
Unfortunately, that is the case for many traditional aged college students throughout the nation — IPFW being no exception. Whether it is the loss of their 
job in this economy or the inability to go to school while also paying for gas, food, and rent, many students are feeling the sharp jabs of poverty. 



March 3,2010 



NEWS 



P. 2 



Library gets new furniture 



By Holly Eggelston 

(99(hm0 1 Siludsftl up (w (du 



students can go to the second floor of 
the library and "Sit on It". There are 
voting sheets and a ballot box where 
students can place their votes. Librari- 
The student government and the li- answill also be organizing focus groups 
brary have paired up to offer students where students are invited to give more 
the opportunity to have a choice in the in-depth feedback about the furniture, 
study area that will be incorporated Lunch will be provided, 
into the new student services center. According to Pamela Sandstrom. 

IPSGA has contributed $50,000 to the Director of Library programs and de- 
project, velopment, "our idea is to compile a 
Student body president Amanda master wish list of features students 
McCann explained "IPSGA is really say are important to their academic 
excited to be getting involved with success". 

the fundamentals [of student life) in a This will be the first major remod- 

more active way than in the past." el that has taken place in Helmke Li 



Increased 
rollment at IPFW 
has led to an in- 
crease in the re- 
serves budget for 
IPSGA which can 
be used by the ex- 
ecutives in ways 
they Teel would 
best be able to 
help students. 

According to McCann, the student There are many great projects be- 

govemment would like to use the extra ing drawn into the re-model, including 
money to "further student life on cam- the possibility of a checkout netbook 
pus and make a better learning envi- system. The program would allow stu- 
ronment for students." dents to check out small netbooks and 

The library has taken hold of the use them anywhere theyneed to within 
idea to let students help design their the student center. Part of the money 



"This will be the first major 

remodel that has taken place 

in Helmke Library since it was 

built in 1972." 

ing. 



brary since it 
built in 1972. The 
furniture that is 
there now is the 
original furniture 
purchased for the 
building, some of 
which will be re- 
furbished for use 
in the new build- 



new area. The "Sit on It" project allows 
students to vote on sample furniture 

and give feedback on which pieces they 
like the best. 

The library's goal is to "help stu- 



from IPSGA will be used to fund the 
program. Librarians are working hard 
to include students in the decisions 
being made and to make the new area 
as functional as possible to promote 



dents study alone in the company of learning. 
others." Dont forget to head to the 2"" floor 

From February 8 through March 8 of the library to place your vote! 




Have a Chat with the Library 



By Louisa Danielson 



Have you used the Helmke Library's 
IM chat service recently? You might 
want to give it a look- it's easier than a 
phone call and faster than e-mail. 

Helmke Library first began plans for 
an IM chat service back in 2006, when 
the entire Instant Messaging concept 
was gaining momentum and the library 
was getting an increase in the number 
of questions that were being e-mailed 
to the reference department. "The 
project was launched on a shoestring- 
no new personnel or funding were al- 
located, but as the numbers show, it 
has grown by leaps and bounds and is 
considered an integral part of our ref- 
erence service now," said Judith Garri- 
son, the Assistant Librarian at Helmke 
who helped to initiate Helmke's IM 
chat service. 

For the several years that the service 
has been available, the number of us- 
ers has increased. In 2007, there were 
only 45 IMs. But in 2009, there were 
608 IM chats that took place. In 2008 
Helmke changed their IM software to 
a system that is more user-friendly and 
that keeps track of the number of chat 
requests that come through. For the 
2007 and early 2008 stats, the number 
of chats had to be recorded by the li- 
brarians answering them, so there's a 
possibility that there were more than 
45 chats in 2007. 

Today, a number of librarians are 
trained to answer the IM chats that 
come in during regular library hours. 
"There is a mix of staff that the ques- 



tions go to. When a chat comes in, it 
will go the 'first respondent' either 
to the Information Assistants at the 
Service Desk or to Librarians that are 
logged in," said Greg, who was answer- 
ing the IM chat service on Friday. "Ev- 
eryone who uses lM/chat is trained 
on how to use the software and all the 
people involved are part of our regular 
reference service so we all are handling 
these sorts of questions each day," 
added Garrison. "About once or twice 
a year we will have a staff training ses- 
sion focused on IM/chat reference spe- 
cifically." 

Students, professors and a few non- 
IPFW affiliated people have contacted 
the library IM chat service in the past. 
"We find that we receive a lot of non- 
library and non-research related ques- 
tions, ' said Garrison. Questions about 
classes and degrees, locations of build- 
ings and the purchasing of books have 
all been filtered through the library's 
service. If there is a question that the 
library can answer - such as something 
about overdue books or fines - then the 
IM chat responder can forward that 
question to the appropriate librarian 
who handles that topic. Other ques- 
tions sometimes result in a referral to 
the campus bookstore or to. another 
IPFW department. But the library does 
handle research questions - short ref- 
erence questions, especially. "Our chal- 
lenge is to answer as much as we can 
online, but know when it makes more 
sense to transfer to phone conversa- 
tion or make an appointment for a 
face-to-face research consultation," 
said Garrison. 



► Chat Library: Page 8 



Correction to last weeks issue: 

Article - IPSGA prepares for spring elections 
Candidate petition forms were due February 26, not Mai 




Now you can find out 

what's happening 

at IPFW. 

All in one place. 

• Browse official university events, all in one location 

• Subscribe to calendars and receive automatic updates 

• Publish information about your official university events 
■ Find out what's happening at IPFW 

Visit events.ipfw.edu, or select the events tab in mylPFW. 




For more information, 

e-mail events@ipfw.edu, 

or call 260-481-6808. 



IPFW 

Indiana university 

purdue university 

fort wayne 



EErngzazmaaianEmaB 



March 3.2010 



OPINION 



P. 3 



Coffee Break 

by Kim Coffey 




Over Stars and Gutters 



By Robin Crowell 

f ohi n y a u r gf a .Mi smalt i iwn 



Music finds people for the 
right reasons, not the other 
way around. 

Matt McHughes. guitarist 
and vocalist for Over Stars 
And Gutters; a band based 
out of Oklahoma, has a raspy 
yel jovial voice as he speaks 
of his band, his influences, 
and where the band plans on 
going as a concrete unit in the 
future. 

With influences ranging 
from lawbreaker to DUlinger 
Four, McHughes explain?, thai 
the driving force behind his 
band involves more than the 
music itself, but the lifestyles 
involved. 

"It's about being willing 
to question what I really 
feel like doing with my life, 
says McHughes, "A lot of the 
bands I'm influenced from 
have til ernes and ideas about 
finding your own path and 
doing what you feel is right." 

Beginning in 2007 and 
having undergone many 
lineup changes, Over Stars 
And Gutters' only original 
member is McHughes. 
However, they have had 
their current lineup since 
late 2008, save for the recent 
departure of their drummer. 
At age 26, McHughes is the 
oldest member of the band, 



accompanied by the rest of 
the musicians who are all the 
mere age of 21 years old. 

Scholastic endeavors can 
be seen to impede the band 
in creating the name for 
themselves that they would 
like to. However, McHughes 
encourages his band mates 
who are obtaining an 
education. 

"We like playing music 
and whatever option pops 
up we're going to do," states 
McHughes, "We can't go out 
and tour as much as people 
who Iplay music] full-time do, 
but 1 encourage it. I've got my 
degree and I decided when 
I was done that I wanted to 
play music. I think of it as 
another influence that they 
can draw from." 

As soon as the band re-ups 
on a drummer, a summer tour 
is in the works and, according 
to McHughes, Indiana is one 
of the states en-route of the 
tour. 

"I'm willing to play 
any kind of show," says 
McHughes, "I'm willing to see 
what happens. I just want 
to play music and see what 
happens. It's not about being 
a rock star." 

The re-release of Over 
Stars And Gutters' debut full- 
length album Consider This 
Your Curse is available on 
Black Numbers; available on 
vinyl and compact disc. 



Chlamydia 

Infection in Allen County above national rate 

"Students anywhere need to make 
intelligent choices about sexual relationships. 
Making choices about becoming friends with 
another person, getting to know them, asking 
their history, including sexual history, and 
making a conscious decision about whether 
to become sexually involved with that person 
are very important," Hathaway said. 

She said condoms will protect students 
only if they are used correctly. 

"There are important issues to consider 
when storing and using condoms so people 
using them need to educate themselves," she 
said. 

Once someone is diagnosed with the 
disease, it is easily treated with antibiotics. 
Left untreated, the results can be painful. 

"In women, untreated infection can 
spread into the uterus or fallopian tubes 
and can cause pelvic inflammatory disease 
(P1D). The damage can lead to chronic pelvic 
pain, infertility and potentially fatal ectopic 
pregnancy," according to 

"Once someone is m . e 5 D 5 ' Wo , men infecled 

■■nth chlamydia are up to 



Nine point seven percent of freshman 
■ college students are infected with ihe sexually- 
transmitted disease chlamydia. It is the most 
, common STD and there are three million new 
I cases annually, according to The National 
Chlamydia Coalition. 

But in Allen County, the rate of infection is 

higher than the national rale. Nationally, for 

every 100,000 people, 496.35 were infected 

with chlamydia. But for Allen County, the 

1 rate was 539 cases for every 100,000, Dr. 

! Deb McMahan, the Allen County Health 

: Commissioner said in an article by the Journal 

I Gazette last week. 

The shocking statistic is the infection rate 

i among students ages 15 to 24 in Indiana, who 

had 1,800 cases for 100,000 people, showing 

the trend for infection is higher among young 

I people. 

The symptoms of 
chlamydia are often silent, 

"Chlamydia may not 
have outside symptoms," 
l Linda Hathaway, Program 
j Manager for the McMillen 
1 Center for Health 

j Education said. "In approximately three- 
1 fourths of infected females and approximately 



diagnosed With the disease, five times more likely 

"it is easily treated with b ( ecome in £ ecled wilh Htv - 

; „ if exposed. 

antibiotics.' Complications are 

less among men, but still 
serious— "pain, fever, and, 
rarely, sterility," the CDC reports. 

As seen from the statistics, age is definitely 




s-half of all infected males, they will have a factor for the disease, especially in the 

■ no symptoms. The only way to know if county. 

someone is infected is for them to undergo But the reason why Allen County students 

simple tests." have a higher rate of infection may nave to do 

Symptoms for women may include, "a with the age demographic around the county. 

burning sensation when urinating, lower "This is a difficult question to answer 

abdominal pain, low back pain, nausea, fever, definitively because many factors play into 

pain during intercourse, or bleeding between this," Hathaway said. "It may be due in part 



menstrual periods." the CDC said. For men, 
signs may include a burning sensation, itching 
and pain, and swelling in the testicles. 

The easiest way to find out if you are 
infected is to go to the doctor and get a simple 
blood or urine test. There are also services in 
the county that offer testing. 

"The local Department of Health offers 
these tests. Call 260-449-7504 for more 
information." Hathaway said. The clinic on 
campus, located in Walb 234, also offers HIV 
and STD testing. 

But it is more important to try to prevent 
the disease before it gets to that point. 



the fact that Allen County has a large 
population of college age students." 

Being in college often brings on risky 
behavior and decision making. 

"Sometimes college students make choices 
that are risky in terms of health behaviors such 
as engaging in sexual behavior or drug use 
simply because they can since they have more 
freedom or because they are not informed 
about the consequences," Hathaway said. 

Overall, two ways to reduce the rate of 
infection and transmission include getting 
tested at annual visits or gelling tested each 
time you have a Dew sexual partner. 



March 3, 2010 



OPINION 



P. 4 



Friday Show: 



By HanaAl Hawash 

haiuh«iHheyahoo mm 



Cherished Again furniture store has seen its fair 
share of old things with all the older furniture that it 
sells, bul if you went there last Friday, you would have 
encountered a much younger crowd. The owners of 
the building recently turned the warehouse into a 
venue for local bands to crank out their jams after 
hours. This is home to a local band called The Ghost 
Claps, which hosted the show on Friday to four other 
bands. Among these bands were Wooden Satellites. 
Dressed for the Weather. Mannequin Angels and You 
and the Sun. 

From the beginning, the room was full of people 
in skinny jeans and big hair as the first band took 
stage, and people were coming and going all evening. 
Even die owners of the building and some of the 
families children were having a great time as Wooden 
Satellites took the stage near the end of the night. 

"I thought the show went really well. It was a new 
venue and new bands so we were just excited to make 
some friends and share our sound," said Eric Frank, 
drummer for Wooden Satellites. 

Wooden Satellites is a local band from Fort Wayne 
and some of its members attended iPFW. The band is 
about three years old and they began in a somewhat 
amusing way. 

"I actually met C.Rav Harvey (guitarist and vocalist) 
after getting in a bar fight over a misunderstanding. I 
think he felt bad after he broke my nose, so we got to 
talking and 1 guess ended up really hitting it off," said 
Frank. 

Andrea Harvey was there from the beginning and 
Andy Plank also joined, first playing Theremin but 
later becoming guitarist as well. 

The Ghost Claps ended the evening off with 
anotiier great performance and everyone went home 
happy, but not before mingling with the crowd before 



Cherished Again furniture Opens 
their Doors to Local Bands 

braving the icy roads and snow. The show consisted 
of a lot of different rypes of music, starting out 
experimental, transitioning to indie and ending with 
alternative, though each band could be classified as 
all three of those genres. 

"I thought the show went really well. It was a new 
venue and new bands so we were just excited to make 
some friends and share our sound," said Frank. 





Photo by Hana Al Hawash / hanahawash@yahoo.ci 



Above: Wooden Satellites posing for a shot 
after their performance at Cherished Again. 



Collegiate Connections 



By Kaitlyn Lucas 



OpEd 

required class for high school graduation. I can take 
chemistry once, here on campus, and get credit twice. 
In my book, that makes sense. Why take a class twice 
if you can take it once and get twice as much credit? 
You might think most students at IPFW have Collegiate Connection provides students with 

completed high school. Urn. no, some of us are still opportunities they might not have at their high 
working our way through high school. Those of us still school. My school doesn't have a student newspaper 
in high school are part of the Collegiate Connection and writing is something I enjoy, so I volunteered to 
program. write for "The Communicator." 

Collegiate Connection is a program forhigh school That is just the beginning of die great things I have 

juniors and seniors. Classes we take count as dual- the opportunity to do. We can participate in all sports 
credit courses - our classes at IPFW count towards except Division 1. We can also be pan of student 
both high school credit AND college credit. It is also organizations, experience the full range of college 
great because some of us just want to do half-days life, while still being high school students, utilize the 
at high school and half days at college. For me it is tutoring, counseling, and library benefits offered by 
a long drive, but it is worth it. I am gaining valuable the university. Games are free; you can use Gates 
experience in this program that are available no other Sports Center and get discounts at area businesses. 



"...Collegiate Connection 

provides students with 

opportunities they might not 

have at their high school." 



way. When most stereotypical 
high school students spend all 
day dwelling on petty drama, 
I'm balancing my high school 
homework, basketball, and 
class work at IPFW. And I'm still 
pulling a decent GPA. 

Many of the high school 
students think that this program 
isredtculous, but Idon'l think they realize the benefits: 
First. I'm already in college. I am soaking up all this 
college-survival sniff first-hand. Kids I know, and 
maybe kids you know, are expecting college to be fun- 
hin. no rules, who cares if we go to class? In my short when 
time at IPFW, I've learned people with this attitude running, 
are most likely the ones who won't be sitting next to So, if you know people who aren't quite si 

you at graduation. Kids who are experiencing college about college after high school, encourage them 
incontrolledincrements,likethoseofusinCollegiate look at Collegiate Connection, or other dual-credii 



This program can help set the 

groundwork for when we get out 

of high school and into college 

full-time. I am convinced we 

will have a smoother transition 

than others. The goals of the 

program are to better-equip us 

as students and thus make our 

college career more successful. 

can explore different career fields. Our credits 

transferable, so if we decide to go to Purdue 

Indiana, we can easily transfer our credits. We 

leam earlier what we're really interested in and 

out of high school we can hit the ground 



Connection, are learning the skills to be successful 
college. We, Collegiate Collection students, are the 
high school students experiencing the "real world." I 
find this whole "real world" concept fascinating, but 
that is another 500 Words. 

Thesecond benefit ofCollegiateConnection.Iget Connection is just one stepping stone 
to lake more challenging classes that cover a wider that is higher education, 
range ol subjects than I could experience in high ^■■■■■■■■■■■■■■b 

school. Collegiate Connection is a good fit for those For more information, contact the 

who excel and are looking for more of a challenge. Ann Brown, head of the Collegiate Connection 

It's a pretty sweet deal. For example, chemistry is a program, at 260-181-54/8 



programs. It's a great opportunity, plus they can use 
the experience to judge whether or not they want to 
continue with college after high school. 

Thus, my advice is jump on it, tell people about it, 

spread the word. Dual school is cool and Collegiate 

the road 



C't&amp;buz^ (_/&amp;icorrvrL 



"I think I'm falling for my 
best friend, is that okay? 

By Hana and Devin 



Devin: Well I think falling for your best friend 
is good, I think your eventual soulmale will be a 
best friend to you. Although, these situations do 
get rough with trying to break down the barrier of 
the friendship label. 

Hana: That's true. The best friend is definitely 
die perfect person for you. They are there for you, 
already love you and already want to spend a lot 
of time with you. But 1 guess the problem is. how 
do you take it to the next level? Would turning 
"hanging out" into "dating" mean just adding on 
the physical stuff? 

Devin: I think that's the problem. When 
Uiese situations occur, no one knows what to do 
with dieir feelings, so they build up the physical 
stuff because they think that's what makes the 
difference. This usually ends badly, because when 
they have their first kiss, if it gets that far, it does 
not feel right. It loses its natural feel because it was 
built up so much as the thing that makes or breaks 
the relationship between the two of them. 

Hana: So what happens? What is the next step? 

Devin: I think, if you are going to try taking best 
friends to the next level, to them how you feel, but 
do not get physical for awhile. Try hanging out 
with both of you guys knowing how eachother feel 
and just lake it little by hide. If you guys do end up 
kissing, let it happen naturally and not forced. 

Hana: Right. I think that it is quite difficult, 
sometimes, for one side to feel it. Take the nerdy 
guy and the cute girl that are best friends. It's 
classic, we've all seen it before. The guy has been 
in love with the girl since the first time they hung 
out but is too scared to say anything. The girl is 
having too much fun frolicking around being cute 
to notice. I think that most times, the girl would 
have a hard time accepting and reciprocating the 
guys feelings in this situation. I think that in this 
case, it will take a lot for the girl to realize that the 
guy has and always will be there for her. and then 
she will fall for him. 

I guess the point is. if your best friend likes you, 
don't be afraid to give them a chance. 






Devin: Very true. 

Hana: So, what If it goes bad? 



Got an Opinion? 



Send us your feedback to 
editorinchief@ipfwcommunicator.org 



Devin: If it goes bad, then at least you got to see 
what would happen. lust try to assure the person 
that you still want them in your life as a best friend 
and leave it at that. Nothing should be forced. 



Hana: Right on. 







March 3. 2010 



OPINION 



P. 5 



For the love of traveling 



By HartaAl Hawash 

hum f -i * l '. '■ I : (3 h t -n 



This week, we hear from Marissa 
Habeshy, an Indiana University student 
at Bloomington. lust like last week, this 
location is definitely within reach of 
college students. When I visited Ma- 
rissa in Bloomington, we ate at Mother 
Bears Pizza Restaurant where we were 
scolded for writing on the walls of the 
already graffiti laden restaurant. We 
went to the museum, which was cooler 
than it sounds, and we even crashed a 
dance marathon, among other things. 
The great thing about Bloomington is 
that it is so obviously a college town. 
At Kroger, it was all young couples or 
single people wearing backpacks. A 
plethora of restaurants, cheap and ex- 
pensive, await you at every comer and 
as long as you are not scared to talk to 
someone or try something new, there 
will always be something to do. Grab 
a few friends and make the three hour 
drive to Bloomington for the day, or call 
a friend and crash at their place for the 
night. If you plan to party, you could 
even get a hotel room if you have no- 
where else to stay. But whateveryou do, 
end the day like Marissa suggests; it is 
a great way to wind down an eventful 
day. 

1) Where do you live? 

I live in Bloomington, Indiana 

2) Were you born in Bloomington? 
No, 1 was born in New Haven. IN-- 

pretty much attached to Fort Wayne. 
New Haven is a small suburb/country 
community in which I spent my whole 
life until about 19 yrs. old. I moved to 
Bloomington because I am an Indiana 
University student. 

3) What do you like most about 
your hometown? Current town? 

What 1 like most about my home- 
town is that my family is there and most 
of my friends live there and everything 
is just very familiar to me. I like Bloom- 
ington because I am surrounded by 
people who are my age and who have a 
lot of the same goals. 

4) What do you and other college 
aged people do in your current town? 

Since Bloomington is a college town, 
there are a lot of activities geared to- 
wards college students. Most activities 
concern studying, partying or ordering 
pizza. There are a lot of social events 



put on by the residential programs or 
the university or the IU auditorium. 

5) Compared to Fort Wayne, are 
the people generally welcoming and 
friendly or not? 

Compared to Fort Wayne. Bloom- 
ington is equally or only slightly more 
welcoming and friendly. I don't think 
people are overly rude in either place. 

6) What Is the atmosphere/cli- 
m ate/terrain like? 

The climate of Bloomington is simi- 
lar to that of Fort Wayne. We experience 
all four seasons. Although, perhaps a 
few degrees warmer than Fort Wayne 
in each season. There are lots of trees 
and there is a more hilly terrain than 
Fort Wayne. 

7) If I or any college student was 
to visit you and we could do anything 
you had in mind, what would our day/ 
night be like? 

If possible, this is how an ideal IU 
day would go with a friend: going to see 
an IU football /basketball game during 
the day and then going to eat at Moth- 
er Bear's for dinner (where we would 
write on the wall). Then we would go 
to the Funny Bone comedy club and 
watch a show. However, if no comedi- 
ans were performing, we could check 
to see if there are any plays or musicals 
showing at the IU auditorium. Then, of 
course, since students can't go to bed 
until 3am, we would go hang out with 
the friends I have here at my place or 
their place. 

8) Where Is the best place to eat? 
Mother Bear's is the best pizza place 

by far. (Although Hana doesn't think 
so.) Yet, recently, I have come to enjoy 
the restaurant Asuka. They have the 
best sushi. 

9) Do people use the public trans- 
portation or does everyone that owns 
a car drive it? 

Freshman must live in the dorm 
their first year and aren't allowd to have 
their car. The bus system is exceptional 
down here and also free to students so 
it's not that big of a loss. Even if stu- 
dents have brought their cars, they 
still use buses because there is limited 
parking everywhere on campus. 

10) Any other cool facts about your 
current town? 

Korean is the largest minority on 
this campus and the IU Art Museum 
contains works by Claude Monet and 
Jackson Pollack and a bunch of other 
cool stuff. 



Sudoku 

Fill In the grid so that every row, column and 
3x3 box contains the numbers 1 through 9. 



Answer to last weeks 
sudoku: 













1 


3 






1 A 


a 


B 


&lt;? 


fi 


? 


fi ' 




5 6 


n 




? 


7 


3 


9 • 






















3 


6 


5 




7 




1 




6 9 


1 


? 


7 


3 


fi 


4 




3 7 


s 


4 


R 


H 


9 


7 




















1 




8 








5 


9 




8 S 


? 


1 


4 


fi 


1 


7 c 




4 3 


9 


7 


5 




fi 


a 




7.3 


6 




a 


? 


4 






3 


1 






8 






5 














3 




2 








you can ee 

PU9USH60 
TOO.' 

Ace you a 

STUOENT? 
FACULTy? 






5 






1 






8 


3 






4 


9 








2 




1 






8 




9 




3 


4 


6 










3 


1 












c 


IX. 


M 


: 











Horoscopes 



For the Week 




ARIES (Mar. 21- April 201 Your ability to work 
with detail will bring recognition. Don't put your 
professional reputation on the line. Losses are likely 
if you get involved with uncertain individuals. Your 
ability to help others will win you points. 

TAURUS I Apr. 2 1 - may 21 ) Your efforts won't go 
unnoticed; however, someone you work with may 
get jealous. Try to spend some time on your own. You 
need adventure and excitement in your life. You may 
have a problem dealing with elders. 



GEMINI (May22-June21) Difficulties with 
female members of your family may result in 
estrangement's. Don't let your partner put you down. 
You won't be able to keep a secret. You must avoid 
gossip and focus on what you have to do. 

CANCER (June 22- July 22) Don't involve yourself 
in the emotional problems of those you work with. 
Be careful when using machinery or electrical 
equipment. Do your own thing without drawing 
attention to it. Friends and relatives can give you 
good advice. 

LEO ( July 23-Aug 22} This week will be hectic. 
Minor accidents may occur if you don't concentrate 
on what you're doing. Don't expect the whole family 
to be overjoyed. Some situations may be blown out 
of proportion. 

VIRGO (Aug.23 -Sept. 23) Family outings or a 
quiet stroll through the park will lead to stimulating 
conversation and a closer bond. Plan a trip to the 
country or take a drive to the beach. Try not to be so 
demonstrative. Expect your workload to be heavy. 

LIBRA (Sept. 24 -Oct. 23) Be careful not to 
overexert yourself. Partners may try to argue with 
you; however, you must stand your ground. Get 
involved in creative projects that could turn into 
moneymaking ventures. Your high enthusiasm will 
be sure to inspire anybody around you. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 2A - Nov. 22) Your best gains 
will come through helping others emotionally. 
Depression may result if you don't get to do things 
your own way. Deep discussions may only lead to 
friction. You will be able to catch up on overdue 
paperwork. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov.23-Dec.21) Donotreact 
too harshly when dealing with partners. Check 
your project over carefully if you were not the 
only one contributing to the end result. Focus on 
your domestic scene. Get together with friends or 
relatives. Don't let criticism upset you. Hassles will 
delay your plans. 

CAPRICORN (Dec 22.- Ian. 20) Refuse to let 
others make unrealistic demands of you. You will get 
along well in social situations. You may be likely to 
have difficulties with females. Relationships will be 
erratic this week. 

AQUARIUS (Ian.2l -Feb. 19) You can expect 
your mate to get fed up and make the choices for you 
or back off completely. Relax I and enjoy what you've 
accomplished when you're finished. Look into any 
educational activities involving the whole family. 
This could be a difficult day to deal with coworkers. 

PISCES (Feb.20-Mar.20j Someone may be trying 
to damage your reputation. You may be overreacting 
to a situation at hand. Self-deception regarding your 
own worth may lead you down the wrong path. You 
will find that joint ventures could easily rum out to 
be dead end projects. 

j Provided by astrology-onlin&amp;com y 




March 3, 2010 . Movies . Music . Theatre . 



Page 6-7 



I 



Artist S[ 

c. ray harvey 



Sometimes when people think music, they 
think poetry. C. Ray Harvey disagrees. Harvey is 
a member of local band Wooden Satellites and a 
student at IPFW. Originally, he was a music major, 
but he has switched to English with a minor in 
music. In Wooden Satellites, he is responsible for 
writing songs, programming electronic beats and 
synthesizer parts, and playing bass. His focus on 
English has helped him with not only the composition 
of lyrics, but also the analysis of the song as a 
whole. Harvey is currently taking poetry classes 
from Dr. George Kalamaras and is learning that 
"good poems and good songs are not comparable 
in the same ways." He enjoys the composition of 
songs more, because once they are performed, one 
can influence how people hear the words and "you 
can even add live contact at shows." 

Wooden Satellites can be classified as playing 
"electric indie rock," but the band as a whole is 
more focused on the artistic self-expression aspect 



of music. Due to 
Harvey likes the 
just the words, b 
rhythm, and the "c 
structure." This is 
about poetry versL 
poetry has the adc 
writing, he loves cc 
"I have somethir 
medium, " H.irvey s 
burned out on the 
time lo express hii 
he works for Apte 
seriously as he wo&gt; 
a distraction and n 
also isn't trying toe 




Z'\A\aOPROl 
2W3IV3^REV 



Artist: Rob Zombie 
Album: Hellbilly Deluxe 11 
Label: Roadrunner Records 
Release Date: February 2, 2010 
Sounds Like: Southern rock meets B-movie 
horror film 
Rating: 4.0/5 

The sequel to "Hellbilly Deluxe", Zombie's triple 
platinum 1998 solo debut, contains the same hard 
breathing, screeches, and horror sounds that fans 
have come to expect. Since going solo in the late 
1990s, Zombie has pioneered the freaky rock style 
that has been labeled groove metal. His latest 
release harkens back to his original solo work in the 
late 90's. 

"Jesus Frankenstein," the first track, begins with 
a morose, howling wind that gives way to heavy 
guitars and drums. The heaviness continues 
through the record. "Bum" and "SickBubbieGum" 
are true head-bangers with terrifyingly clear lyrics. 
The alburn ends with the nearly ten minute "The 
Man Who Laughs." Complete with an orchestra and 



a four minute drum solo, this is the perfect end to 
Zombie's return to hardcore horror rock. 

This record strays from the more commercial pop 
sound that permeated "Educated Horses," Zombie's 
last studio album. Fans of early solo Zombie and 
White Zombie (the band Zombie fronted in the late 
80's and early 90's) will relate better with this album 
than the others between it and the original "Hellbilly 
Deluxe." Zombie uses the same musicians on this 
album that he did on the original, hence the name. 

After heading in a new direction for his last two 
studio albums, Zombie returns to his roots. The 
songs do not have the same single-quality that 
"Dragula" or "Superbeast" from the original. This 
might be what Zombie wanted to do: make a rock 
album without regard to radio play. The album 
is not entirely original but better than anything 
Zombie has done as of late. Unfortunately, some 
of the singing is so distorted that it cannot be 
understood and the creativity that drive Zombies 
style is muddled. The lyrics that can be understood 
and the unique background noise and music make 
this an album worth listening to. 




Artist: Leatherface 

Album: "The Stormy Petrel" 

Label: No Idea/ BigUgly Fish Recordings 

Release Date: February 23, 2010 (United 
Kingdom) 

Sounds Like: Smoothly rough punk 
rock. 

Rating: 4.5/5 

For a band that has been putting out 
music for over twenty years, Leatherface 
certainly hasn't lost touch with making 
great music. 

From track one, entided "God Is Dead," 
to the very end, entided "Hope," the 
guitars, sometimes smooth, sometimes 
crunchy as all get out, soar in and out of 
heart-racing percussion, bass that reaches 
into the human pulse, and vocals so raspy 
that they're smooth. 

As their ninth full-length album and 



their first in over six years is 
can expect a band like this 
however, "The Stormy Petn 
to be untrue. "Another E 
of those tracks that feels 
melancholy and the track 
following entitled "Diego G 
epic in a searching sort of 
in repetition "Is there a litde 
little bit of hope?" 

Lending inspiration to b 
Water Music, who have i 
modem punk rock, Leathe 
release is right on par with t 
their earlier releases held ani 
Petrel" is certain to inspire 
bands within the genre to c 
of those albums that catch 
ways that music generally i 
thus providing a purely enjerj 
experience to fans of many g&lt; 




Page 6-7 



Spitlight 



8y Holly Gallaway 



Movies 

Opening this Week 



Alice in Wonderland (2010) 



of music. Due to the focus on self-expression, 
Harvey likes the various aspects of music-not 
just the words, but also the melody, harmony, 
rhythm, and the "conventional verse/chorus/verse 
structure." This is part of why he enjoys learning 
about poetry versus music. While he knows that 
poetry has the added perspective of reading and 
writing, he loves communicating through music. 

"I have something to communicate. Music is the 
medium," Harvey says. He also says he tends to get 
burned out on the rest of life if he can't take the 
time to express himself through music. Though 
he works for Aptera, he focuses on the band as 
seriously as he would a job. Harvey says it's not 
a distraction and not just a way to look cool. He 
also isn't trying to change the world. He simply has 
something to say and uses music to say it. Wooden 
Satellites has an eight-song album from 2008 called 
"Why Can't I Be Enough." They are also currently 



"...Even if the members come and go, I keep 
writing the same songs and my wife Andrea will 
probably always be a part of the music I'm making, 
so the consistency is there," Harvey says about the 
band's potential longevity. As for touring, however, 
Wooden Satellites has been concentrating on 
playing around town. You can usually catch them 
at the Brass Rail, the Pint and Slice, or the Dash-In. 
They are, however, hoping to play out of town this 
upcoming summer. Harvey loves the local scene, 
but he thinks the best thing his band can do for it 
is to "escape." 

Harvey is a fifth-year senior. I 
Aptera, a software and web design company located 
in downtown Fort Wayne. He says he likes playing 
with words and enjoys working in an industry that 
is constantly changing, such as web design. "I'd 
be very coot with doing this for a decade or so," 
Harvey says about his job. 



ROBIN'S 
BJREVIEWS 





lieir first in over six years is released, fans 
an expect a band like this to lose touch; 
:Owever, "The Stormy Petrel" proves this 
d be untrue "Another Dance" is one 
•f those tracks that feels optimistically 
lelancholy and the track immediately 
allowing entitled "Diego Garcia" sounds 
pic in a searching sort of way, chanting 
n repetition *ls there a little bit of light? A 
ittlebitofhope?" 

Lending inspiration to bands like Hot 
Vater Music, who have revolutionized 
nodem punk rock, Leatherface's newest 
elease is right on par with the power that 
heir earlier releases held and "The Stormy 
"etrel" is cenain to inspire many, many 
&gt;ands within the genre to come. It's one 
if those albums that catch the listener in 
vays that music generally doesn't catch, 
hus providing a purely enjoyable listening 
xperience to fans of many genres. 




Artist: Alkaline Trio 
Album: This Addiction 
Label: Epitaph/ Heart and Skull 
Release Date: February 23, 2010 
Sounds Like: Alkaline Trio finally 
remembered how to make good music. 
Rating: 4.5/5 

For a while, Alkaline Trio fans lost 
hope. They found themselves wandering 
through the great songs of old Alkaline Trio 
albums and wondering what happened. 
What could have possibly gone wrong? 
"Crimson" and "Agony and Irony" felt like 
jokes that simply were not in anyway funny. 
But with the release of "This Addiction," it 
seems Alkaline Trio is done making bad 
jokes and back to making music. 

Though the song tides are a little bit 
silly, the songs themselves make up for it. 
Songs like "Dine, Dine My Darling" (an 
obvious Misfits reference) and "Draculina" 



are prime examples of the silly tiding, but 
the songs themselves don't lack substance. 
Many of the tracks, too, such as "Dead on 
the Floor" and "The American Scream" 
really show that the Trio is trying to take 
their music right back to where it started. 

It feels, too, that the band leaving Epic 
Records and re-uniting with their producer 
from way back in the day, Matt Allison, has 
a lot to do with their navigating back to 
the roots that their music was originally 
derived from. This album isn't simply just 
going back to how they used to sound, 
though. In the track "Lead Poisoning." the 
Trio integrates a hom section; something 
that in no past album have they done. And 
"Eating Me Alive" sounds like something 
straight out of the eighties. 

Fans, just try to forget that "Crimson" 
and "Agony and Irony" ever happened. 
"This Addiction" is the album that should 
have come right after'Good Mourning." 



March 3,2010 



STUDENT ISSUES 




► CHAT LIBRA RY 
From Page 3 



With the convenience of modern tech- 
nology, students can now stay on the com- 
puter, typing their paper while chattingwith 
a librarian about different research terms. 
However, the service does lag a bit when the 
library is closed, or there are no respond- 
ed available for immediate answers. When 
there is an IM chat waiting but there ate 
no available librarians, the message can be 
sent as an e-mail to the library. Then it is an- 
swered in approximately twenty-four hours, 
just like the regular e-mail that the library 
receives. 

While there are some library IM chat sys- 
tems that allow the user and responder to be 
anonymous (for example, the University of 
Virginia, Charlottesville and Indiana Univer- 
sity, Bloomington, library chat services do 
not require any identification), the Helmke 
Library IM chat service requests that users 
enter their name and an e-mail address. 
Users have the option of using the IM chat 
anonymously - i.e. with a faux address. But 
the address serves a purpose in that the en- 
tire conversation can then be e-mailed back 
to the person who contacted the library. This 
comes in handy when the librarian types 
down addresses and telephone numbers or 
book titles that are necessary for the stu- 
dent's research. 

In summing up the value of the library's 
IM chat service, Garrison put it this way: 
"For many IM/chat users it is the first time 
they have contacted the library for help... 
I think we are providing a new 'door' to the 
library that is more attractive to some folks 
than the traditional ways of asking for help 
from library staff." 



IPFW Graduation 



By Louisa Danielson 

Danita02 vtstudtmi. ip IblkIu 

Graduation time is coming up - faster than you might 
think. Although the official graduation ceremony will 
be held on May 12 at 7:00 pm, registration for this event 
should have been sent in by November 1 of 2009, for se- 
niors who are graduating in May of 2010. If you missed 
the deadline, check with your advisor to see if you can 
send in a late registration. 

What will you do at graduation? The ceremony will 
be held in the Arena at the Allen County War Memori- 
al Coliseum. Students should arrive at the Coliseum in 
time to get into line with their department by 6:30 pm. 
They are welcome to have guests attend 
the ceremony - no tickets are required 
and there is no limit on seating. The 
ceremony will last undl about 9:00 pm, 
to be followed by a graduation celebra- 
tion. 

Caps and gowns are available at the 
IPFW Bookstore. Students will need 
to fill out the appropriate forms when 
they purchase their gowns. Under- 
graduate and Associate degree caps 
and gowns cost S29, graduate caps, 
gowns and hoods are $59. The color of a 
graduate's tassel can vary - for example, 
music majors will wear pink tassels and 
caps while science majors wear golden 
tassels. 

During the ceremony, diploma cov- 
ers will be handed out to each graduate 
- the real diplomas will be distributed 
for winter 2009 and spring 2010 candi- 



dates immediately after the ceremony, during the gradu- 
ation celebration. The graduation celebration which 
follows will be open to graduates, graduate's guests, and 
the university community. Doors to the celebration will 
open only after the graduation is over. 

IPFW will be hosting the Senior Salute on March 2 
from 2-7 pm and March 3 from 9am - 2 pm in Kettler 
Hall. This special event is designed to let graduating se- 
niors know about the elements of the graduation process 
- from announcement cards to tassels, caps and gowns, 
the whole procedure will be discussed. Students pur- 
chasing gowns at the IPFW Bookstore will also be given a 
special 10% discount. This special discount will run from 
March 1 - 20. 




Photo by Han Nguyen / IPFW GRADUATE 




/larch 3. 2010 



STUDENT ISSUES 



P. 9 



One Students Disasterous Attempt at Parking 

Students leave earlier, stay longer, and cramp tighter 




By Kristan Mensch 



IPFW students have begun to leave 
earlier and earlier for their classes. 
Sometimes, they stay on campus when 
they could have otherwise gone home 
for a break. Or, if they are feeling rath- 
er lucky, they will even stop their car 
where ever they may be and hope that 
they do not come back to a ticket stuck 
under the windshield wipers. The rea- 
son that this happens: parking. 

No one at IPFW is a stranger to the 
hunt for a parking spot - at least if they 
want one within a mile of their class- 
room. Sometimes, though, people go 
above and beyond the hunt - they go 
on an all-out metal massacre - with me 
as a witness to their abilities. 

Awhile back. I was scouring for a 
place in P3, after finding no luck in ei- 
ther parking garage. I searched up and 
down each isle multiple times. How- 
ever, there were side-to-side cars and 
about ten other running engines join- 
ing me in the search. Each of them was 
ready to snatch up any opening. It was 
the battle of the fastest turn signal. 

Every row held at least one of those 
people that make going out to your car 
an awkward experience. There are the 
students that creep very slowly behind 
you. assuming that you're leaving in- 
stead of retrieving things from your car. 
Those are the ones who wait behind 
you for ten minutes. Or, there are the 
people who are sick of the hunt, roll 
down their windows and ask where you 
have parked. 

The very last row, of course, held 
all the real excitement: there was an 
empty spot. Now, I lost this battle - the 
tiniest car had gotten there first, and all 



the rest of us had to sit and wait for it to 
maneuver into position. 

Turns out, even the smallest car 
has difficulty squeezing in between an 
oversized truck and a hard place. Over 
and over, the little car corrected its po- 
sition - often times so slightly I could 
hardly tell hed moved his steering 
wheel. Oh, the tension stirring behind 
him as class times approached. 

He must have sensed tension, or 
maybe he was just sorry for the wait, 
because he began to accelerate faster 
as he was trying to bend his wheels 
and curve in perfectly. Yet, speed is not 
the parker's best friend. After another 
of those barely-there wheel rums, he 
slammed straight into the car on his 
left. Being the first in the waiting line. I 
got to see the expression of "did I really 
just do that? Please, pretend that I did 
not." Amazingly, after the hit, he slid 
into position in seconds flat. Although 
I did not stick around to check. I have a 
feeling he probably had lo cut a hole in 
the top of his car to be able to get out 
because it was so cramped. 

Now. i found a place and arrived at 
class relatively close to when I was sup- 
posed to be there. It was about halfway 
through my note-taking, though, that 
it bubbled over: laughter. Not just any 
laughter, either, but hysterical, knee- 
slapping and slouching over a pain- 
ful stomach laughter. I could not stop. 
Somewhere in my brain it had con- 
nected - the bad parker's left bumper 
was already smashed before the inci- 
dent. 

Was it the same kind of scenario 
that crumpled his bumper? Was it from 
something much worse? 1 have no idea. 
All that I am certain of is that if I ever 
come across him again I will stay to his 
right. 



The sharp jabs of poverty at IPFW 



By Kristan Mensch received financial aid, it was a difficult 

kfinanb 1eant1re9nuii.com feat. "I couldn't afford it |college| from 

day one," Myers said, adding "it was 

just me putting everything on my credit 

The definition of poverty is not, like card and paying it off whenever I could 

many people imagine, always to the with whatever money I got from work." 

extent of having to live in a cardboard Eventually, Myers said she was unable 

box between buildings. While there to pay for gas or school materials, so 

are some very unfortunate people out she began to perform very poorly in 

there, poverty's definition according to her classes and ended up having to call 

the Merriam- Webster dictionary is "the it quits, 

state of one who lacks a usual or so- According to the National Center 



cially acceptable 
amount of money 
or material pos- 



Educatioi 
"Ashley Myers, a former IPFW Statistics (ncesj 



Most everyone 
has experienced 
that feeling — not 
being able to eat 
between classes 



student, ended up dropping 

out her sophomore year 

because she could no longer 

afford tuition." 



retention rates 
at IPFW for Fall 
2007 is at 63 per- 
cent. That means 
that only 63 per- 
cent of first-time, 
full-time students 




because they do not get paid until the who enrolled in Fall 2007 came back 

next day or having to squeeze every and continued their education in Fall 

penny for gas— but in most cases one 2008. 

day would not do very much harm. In Additionally, NCES showed that 

turn, living in poverty for long periods students who began in Fall 2000 only 

of time is no picnic. had a 27 percent graduation rate for 

Ashley Myers, a former IPFW those pursuing a bachelor's degree over 

student, ended up dropping out her thespanofeightyears.Thatpercentage 

sophomore year because she could no plunged down to a mere 4 percent who 

longer afford tuition. Even though she accomplished their bachelor's degree 



Photo Courtesy of lnvestigatingMikeWaUon.com 



over the traditional four year term. 

In rum, because of the recession 
"jobs kind of went away," said lulie 
Creek, Coordinator for the Center for 
Women and Returning Adults. 

"A bunch of people who were doing 
just fine aren't anymore," said Creek. 

This region of Indiana's 
unemployment rate is 11.1 percent 
as of Dec. 2009, compared to the U.S. 
unemployment rate of 9.7 percent, 
according to the Indiana Department 



of Workforce Development. With many 
people out of work, postsecondary 
education can take the back seat to 
being able to eat and have a roof to 
sleep under. 

Times are no doubt very tough for 
many people these days. lobs are being 
lost, expenses are through the roof, 
and education is being put off. But, just 
like the old sayings go about staying 
in school, a bachelor's degree is nearly 
essential in this day and age. 



March 3,2010 



SPORTS 



P. 10 



Fish Picks vs. Pea Predictions 



fflarch fllodne// 

Challenge 



Monday, March 15th - 
Pick up Brackets in Walb 215 or go 
online to ipfwcommunicator.org to 
download your bracket today. 

Predict the winners and scores and 
see if you can beat Lucas and Logan 
at their own game. 

Thursday, March 18th - 
Due at Noon 

Students, Faculty and Alumni can 
join the challenge. 

Sponsored By: 

CONEY O ZIFFLES 
ISLAND Ot RIB BAR 



Fish: (39-38] Pea: (45-32) 



By Lucas Fishe 


/ Iucotuto8@tomta5t.net 


By Logan Pea / pealtOI ©students.ipfw.edu 


10 


Lakers at Suns (Friday 3/1 2) 

Fish: Lakefs- Suns stopped by triangle 

Pea: Lakers- Suns struggle 


^^* Penguins al Devils (Friday 3/12) 
■^% Fish: Penguins- Crosby flying high 
^J Pea: Devils- Penguins come out slow 


9 


Celtics at Cavaliers (Sunday 3/14) 
Fish: Cavs- Celtics have hit a brick wall 
Pea: Cavaliers- Celtics can't figure it out 


^1 Lakers al Magic (Sunday) 
%JL Fish: Magic- Depth helps them out 
X Pea: Magic- Lakers not looking good 


8 


Capitals at Sabres (Wednesday) 

Fish: Sabres- Miller continues greatness 

Pea: Capitals- Ovechkin back on track 


^^% West Virginia at Villanova (Saturday) 

^t Fish: Villanova- Win it in final seconds 

W^ Pea: Villanova- Both teams overrated 


7 


Tennessee at Mississippi St. (Saturday) 
Fish: Miss St.- Hostile territory for Vols 
Pea: Tennessee- Vols look very good 


^^fc Kansas St. at Kansas (Wednesday) 
^J Fish: Kansas- Rebounds to win Big 12 
Mm^ Pea: Kansas- Another win al home 


6 


Thunder at Nuggets (Wednesday) 
Fish: Nuggets- Melo edges out Durant 
Pea: Thunder- Great game 


^1 Capitals at Blackhawks (Sunday 3/14) 
■ 1 Fish: Hawks- Win the bailie of Ihe best 
1 1 Pea: Hawksk- Ovechkin vs. Kane 



IPFW baseball and softball teams 
finish second week on the road 



By Monica Gerdeman 

m 9 eideirari 2 00 71* holmail.com 



IPFW men's baseball opened 
last week on the road in Martin, 



Cronin shutout her sixth career 
opponent with just two walks over 
the seven inning workout. 

Although the 'Dons started the 
weekend off right, they were i 



Tennessee. Playing a three game able to finish the final two games 

series, the outcome wasn't as the of the Classic in their benefit. 
'Dons would have liked it. Al- The baseball team continued 

though IPFW's opening weekend their season this past weekend i 



was a 0-3 event, junior catcher 
Cory Miller ended on a high note 
batting six for nine with an RBI. 

The women's softball also 
opened their season in Tennes- 
see, in die 



Missouri. With a three game se- 
ries, the 'Dons, once again, just 
couldn't connect with a win. Their 
current record is 0-6. 

IPFW takes the field again this 
coming 



Memphis "The women's team was able to 



facing off positions from last year, which gave 
against them a familiar sense of team." 

Mem- 
phis, Southeast Missouri State, 
McNeese Slate, and Appalachian 
State. 

The women's learn was able 
to return seven of the eight start- 
ing positions from last year which 



Friday in 
Arkansas 
for a four 
game se- 
ries. They 
will first 
appear at home on April 6. 

The women evened things out 
as they too continued their season 
this past weekend. 

Cronin was able to add anoth- 
er shut-out to her list totaling s 



gave them a strong, familiar sense en on her career and junior Rachel 
of team in their first victory of the Staschuk was also able to earn a 



season over Memphis. 

Junior Sara Hopwood, in her 
first game as a Mastodon, took 
the first pilch at bat in the top of 
the seventh, knocking the neon 
sphere over ihe center field wall 
causing an IPFW walk-off win. 

Sophomore pitcher Courtney 



shut-out in game two. Short Stop 
Sara Hopwood finished game two 
2-3, with two runs. 

IPFW will rerum to the play- 
ing field this coming Saturday in 
More-head, Kentucky for a double 
header. Their first home game will 
be March 19. 




Photo by Lucas Carter / LucasCartErPhotography.ee 



Baseball: Pictured is junior outfielder Garrett Segraves, who started all 41 
games in which he played for the Mastodons in 2009. 



March 3,2010 



SPORTS 



60 Second Sports Report 

2010 Winter Olympic Edition 



By Lucas Fisher 

luwutodOcomciiT.rvM 

On February 12. 20IO the Winter 
Olympics started up in Vancouver, 
Canada. Before the opening ceremo- 
nies started we learned of the death 
of Nodar Kumarilashvili a Georgian 
Luger, who died during a practice run. 

The firs! gold of the Olympics went 
to Anastasia Kuzmina (SVK) in the 
women's biathlon. Sven Kramer (NED) 
won the gold in men's 5.000M speed 
skating breaking an Olympic record- 
USA won their first gold after Hannah 
Kearney won in women's freestyle ski- 
ing. Lee fung-Su (KOR) beat out Apolo 
Anton Ohno (USA) for the 1 ,500M short 
track speed skating gold medal. Mo 
Tae-Bum (KOR) won gold in the men's 
500M speed skating. 

As the first week came to an end, the 
US stars started to rack up some gold 
medals; with Lindsey Vonn in downhill 



skiing, Shaun White on the halfpipe, 
Shani Davis in 1.000M speedskating, 
Evan Lysacek in figure skating and 
Bode Miller in super combined ski- 
ing. Then the United States continued 
to medal with Julia Mancuso winning 
stiver in downhill skiing and the super 
combined, Hannah Teter won silver 
and Kelly Clark won bronze in half- 
pipe snowboarding. Bode Miller won 
silver in super G skiing, Lindsey Vonn 
won bronze in super G skiing. Shani 
Davis won silver in 1.500M speedskat- 
ing, Apolo Anton Ohno won bronze in 
1.000M short track speedskating and 
Chad Hedrick won bronze in 1.000M 
speedskating. In the preliminary 
groupings, team USA stunned team 
Canada 5-3 in men's hockey. Entering 
week two of the Olympics the USA lead 
in the medal count with 24. 

In the second week Lee Seung Hoon 
(KOR) won gold in men's 10.000M 
speedskating breaking an Olympic 




Photo by Harry How / Getty Images 



Above: Canada's Hockey Player, Sidney Crosby after a gold medal finish 
at the 2010 Olympic Games. 




Photo by Andrew Mills / Slat Ledger 



Above: The United States men's four man bobsled team finishing for 
the gold medal. 



record, Marcus Hellncr, Anders Soed- 
ergren, lohan Olsson, Daniel Rickards- 
son (SWE) won gold in the men's 4x10 
cross country relay. Bill Demong (USA) 
won gold in men's nordic combined 
large hill as Johnnny Spillane (USA) 
won silver, Sweden 7-6 over Canada to 
win gold in women's curling, Canada 
6-3 over Norway to win gold in men's 
curling, and Charles Hamelin (CAN) 
won gold in men's 500M speedskating 
as Apolo Anton Ohno got disqualified. 
Some of the biggest news that came 
from the Olympics happened in five 
events; women's 3,00()M speedskating 
relay, men's short track speedskating 
5.000M relay, men's four man bobsled, 
women's hockey, and men's hockey. 
In the women's 3.000M speedskat- 
ing relay Sun Linlin, Zhang Hui, Wang 
Meng, Zhou Yang (CHN) won gold after 
the officials disqualified Korea, which 
moved Canada into silver and USA into 
bronze. In the men's short track speed- 
skating S.00OM relay Francois Hame- 
lin, Francois-Louis Tremblay, Charles 
Hamelin, Guillaume Bastille, and Ol- 
ivier Jean (CAN) won gold with the USA 
winning bronze, which gave Apolo An- 
ton Ohno his record 8 lh medal. In the 



men's four man bobsled Steve Mesler, 
CurtTomasevicz, Steven Holcomb. and 
Justin Olsen (USA) won gold, it was 
the first gold for the USA since 1948. 
In women's hockey Canada won gold 
over the USA 2-0. After the game there 
was some controversy with the Canada 
players bringing out beer, champagne, 
and cigars on the ice, they did apologize 
afterwards. Before the most watched 
event of the Olympics the USA hockey 
players had to have their flights home 
rescheduled after the NHL Players As- 
sociation booked them to return prior 
to Sunday's gold-medal game against 
Canada. 

As for the game, team Canada won 
gold over USA in men's hockey 3-2 in 
overtime. For team USA Parise scored 
the game tying goal with 24 seconds 
remaining. In overtime Sidney Crosby 
scored the gold medal winning goal. 
That game was the most watched 
hockey game since the 1980 gold medal 
game. The final medal count was USA 
with 37, Germany with 30, and Canada 
with 2*s. ' 

For more on the Olympics and 

other sporting news check out ipf- 

wcommunlcator.org 



IPFW to the World 

Junior Oscar Narvaez 



The 



Communicator 



urdue Student Newspapers, li 



By Oli Kook also 'ikes to cook. 

a 1 1yerkookS3nui1.com Soccer, next to Rugby is considered a 

national sport in Australia and has always 

played a part in Oscar's life. So far, he has 
Oscar Narvaez came to IPFW in 2009. had an amazing time, meeting great peo- 
Bom and raised in Sydney, Australia, Oscar pie. enjoying his education while finish- 
played soccer in High School for Emmaus ing his degree. " I feel that when one is in 
Catholic. a certain place, it is only as good and re- 
Sydney is Australia's largest city with a warding as one makes it," says Oscar. Be- 
metropolitan area population of approxi- ing from Australia, he does not appreciate 



mately 4.4 mil- 
lion, often being 
referred to as the 
"Harbour City". 
Oscar trans- 
ferred here from 
Barton County 
Community Col- 
lege, KS to play 



"His other passion is music. 

In his free time, Oscar likes to 

spin the turntables, playing DJ 

for his friends." 



the amounts of 
snow that Fort 
Wayne has to 
deal with, but a 
good time with 
his new found 
friends and the 
chance to expe- 
rience other cul- 



soccer for IPFW while pursuing a degree in tures while travelling around the globe to 

General Studies with two minors in Orga- play soccer seem to make up for it. 
nizational Leadership and Supervision as Oscariscurrentlypreparingfornextse- 

well as in Communication. mester's season with the IPFW men's soc- 

His other passion next to soccer is mu- certeam.lt is going be his senior year, and 

sic. In his free time. Oscar likes to spin the he is looking forward to getting the most 

turntables, playing D] for his friends. He out of it. 



Kelly McLendon 
Managing Editor 



Neal Quandt 

Copy Editor 



Peter Schnellenberger 
Politics &amp; Money 

Monica Gerdeman 
Sports Editor 

Kassi Galbreath 
Layout Designer 

Lucas Carter 
Photography 
Editor 

Alisha Humbert 
Ad Manager 



&gt;nSuiie2l5 
2101 ColneumBhd Ejsi 
I on Wa/nt. W 468OS 



Gip'w&amp;OrnmurMCJtar.o/g. 



.rj-e -,'.',- -.t- ■ ■ i-.-.'i 



Co |CTj h»* j .' : , 




March 3. 2010 



SPORTS 



P. 12 



Half court heave bounces away 

Dons fall short in season finale H**~^^ 



By Logan Pea 

pMltfl 2«5lu(! en K lp lw e d u 



of their free throw attempts, shooting 
61 percent, but still bouncing the 'Dons 
86-83. Oakland has the best Summit 
League record this season, 117-1) but if 
Free throws. Key word: free. The the ball just would've bounced the way 
clock is stopped, nobody is trying to of the Dons just one more time, Oak- 
block the shot, and the only thing dis- land would have a record of 16-2. 
trading you would maybe be the away IPFW trailed by ten points at the 

team's crowd. My point is: free throws halftime break and came out with fire 
are a simple part of the game. You can in the second half. Trey McCorkle 
come back from any deficit. After all, continued his terrific play, tossing in 
the free throw line is also known as "the a career high 25 points, and the other 
charity stripe." big man, Deilvez Yearby chipped in 23 

On the other hand, you can lose any of his own, while pulling down ten re- 
game thanks to free throws. For a pan bounds for yet another double-double. 
of this season, Jeremy Mixon 

free throws have "Saturday evening, the men's had mother bi s 

cost the men's *„„_ -i™..- A 4h-&gt;*fe aa *hr«iuic: B ame ' scoring 18 

basketball team team showed that free throws poims in just i8 

games here and Were not going to COSt them a minutes of play, 
there, if only the game anymore.'' When it 

men could have comes down to 

knocked down it. IPFW can play 

the free tosses, their already "best re- with anybody in the conference. With 
cord in IPFW history" would be even the conference tournament getting 
better. underway March 6 in South Dakota, 

Saturday evening, the men's team IPFW has won four out of their final 
showed that free throws were not going five games and seem to be playing their 



to cost them a game anymore. IPFW 
made 80 percent of their free throws. 
Unfortunately, finally finding rhythm 
at the line wasn't enough Saturday 
night at Oakland, where coincidently, 



the Golden Grizzlies missed nearly half go dancing? 



best basketball. Sunday, March 7 at 6 
pm, IPFW will start the tournament 
run in what is already the best season 
for the 'Dons since they went Division 
1. So I say, why not win the thing and 




Photo by Lucas Carter / LucasCarter Photography.ee 



Men's Basketball: Pictured is junior Zack Plackemeier in the game going 
up for a short jump shot. 




Tourney time just 
around the corner 

Women drop final game 



By Logan Pea 



out of it and take care of the ball better 

with the Summit League tournament 

just around the corner. The Mastodons 

did manage to go 7-7 from the free 

The regular season wrapped up for throw line. Free throws have always 

the IPFW women's basketball team been on IPFW's side this season, which 

Saturday afternoon in Richmond, can really help them out during the 

Michigan as they fell to Oakland Urn- tournament. 

versity 82-68. The game was tight all Now, all IPFW can do is sit, wait, and 

throughout the first half and IPFW had hope for the best possible set-up in the 
the Oakland lead cut to just five points Summit League tournament, 
at the break. Oakland came out in the Just like the men's team, the worn- 

second half with a fire though and just en have never made an appearance in 



ran away with the 
game. IPFW kept 
the game as close 
as they could, 
but just couldn't 
come away with 

Three Mast- 



"Just like the men's team, 

the women have never made 

an appearance in the NCAA 

tournament" 



the NCAA tour- 
nament. IPFW 
has beaten every 
team in the Sum- 
mit League with 
an exception 
of three teams 
(South Dakota 



.ucdsCarterPhatography.cc 



Women's Basketball: Pictured is junior Chelsey Jackson, who contrib- 
uted 20 points on Saturday afternoon. 



odons made their ways in the double St, North Dakota St, and Southern 

figures Saturday afternoon. Stephanie Utah). In a tournament, anything can 

Rosado, Chelsey Jackson, and Jordan happen. 

Zuppeallcombinedfor54ofLPFWs68 IPFW finished the regular season 

points. Rosado knocked in 24 points, with a record of 13-16 overall, and 10-8 

Jackson contributed 20. and Zuppe in the Summit League. In a season 

threw in 10. Jackson also had ten turn- where anything seems to be possible, 

overs in the contest. Turnovers are how great would it be to see both Men's 

something that Jackson has had an is- and Women's basketball teams in the 

sue with all season, but hopes to snap NCAA tournament? 



